Taxable payments reporting and contractors | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Taxable payments reporting and contractors Lodge a Taxable payments annual report (TPAR) to report payments made to contractors for providing certain services. Last updated 27 May 2026 Print or Download Reporting payments for contractors As part of the Taxable payment reporting system (TPRS), many businesses lodge a Taxable payments annual report (TPAR) to report payments made to contractors for providing the following services: building and construction cleaning courier information technology (IT) road freight security, investigation or surveillance If you work as a contractor providing any of these services, remember to include all your income on your tax return. To help you get it right, we can include information reported to us about contractor payments to you in our: pre-filling service – if you're a sole trader, you or your registered tax agent may use our pre-filling service to easily include these payments in your tax return reported transactions in ATO online platforms – these records give you transparency about the data that has been provided to us about your business transactions. Why we collect this information Collecting information about contractor payments in the TPAR helps us: identify contractors who do not meet their tax obligations so we can let them know and help them correctly report their income make sure businesses aren't disadvantaged by competitors who don't declare all their income. What’s new for Tax Time 2026 – pre-fill for individuals in business If you work as a contractor providing TPRS services, amounts reported to the ATO through TPAR will now be pre-filled in your tax return. Pre-fill securely imports verified data into your return and reduces manual entry, helping you get things right the first time. Most TPAR data will only be available after 28 August each year. Lodging in July or early August means this information may not appear yet. This could lead to omissions, the need for amendments, and repayment of refunds later. Lodging after 28 August gives you the best experience and reduces risk of errors. You can check, update and confirm any pre-filled information before you lodge. If you change a pre-filled amount, you will be asked to select a short reason code explaining why. For more information, see: pre-fill availability what you need to report in your income tax return what to include in your business's assessable income Other contractor tax obligations See information to help you stay on top of your other tax and super obligations when working as a contractor , including: what you need to do when starting a business tax registrations you may need keeping records QC 68082 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).