Super for long-distance drivers | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Super for long-distance drivers How to calculate super guarantee (SG) and ordinary time earnings for long-distance drivers. Last updated 1 July 2025 Print or Download Super calculation methods For drivers covered by the Road Transport (Long Distance Operations) Award 2020 , ordinary hours of work are 38 hours per week. In some cases, ordinary hours may be determined as an average of up to 28 consecutive days. Ordinary time earnings (OTE) are defined in the same way as other employees. Employers should seek advice if you are unsure how to calculate ordinary time earnings for employees when multiple methods are involved in determining the ordinary hours earning base for super. You can calculate super guarantee (SG) for long-distance drivers using one of the following 3 methods: minimum-guaranteed-wage method – you can't use this method if the driver's wages are more than the minimum under one of the other 2 methods hourly-driving-rate method cents-per-kilometre method The following examples are based on the award. Employers should seek advice if the terms of your enterprise agreement vary from the award. Example: minimum-guaranteed-wage method Marge is a long-distance driver Grade 6 working under the Road Transport (Long Distance Operations) Award 2020 . The award stipulates a minimum guaranteed wage payment of $1,016.40 per week. This is regardless of how long Marge actually drives. As Marge receives only this minimum payment under the award, during the July–September quarter of the 2025–26 financial year, her employer calculates her OTE using that amount: Marge's super guarantee is calculated as: = OTE × SG rate = $1,016.40 × 12% = $121.97 per week. End of example   Example: hourly-driving-rate method Sean is a long-distance driver Grade 6 working under the Road Transport (Long Distance Operations) Award 2020 . He is paid under the hourly-driving-rate method. The hourly driving rate of $39.64 for full-time employees includes 2 components: an industry disability allowance of 1.3 times a base rate an overtime allowance of 1.2 times a base rate. Although the hourly rate includes a component referred to as an overtime allowance, the allowance is not deducted from the total when calculating OTE. This is because the whole hourly driving rate is paid for what are defined to be ordinary hours of work (except where the hours worked exceed 38 hours). Sean works his ordinary hours of 38 hours in each of the last 3 weeks of August 2025. Sean's super guarantee for each week is calculated as: = OTE × SG rate = ordinary hours × hourly rate × SG rate = 38 hours (as defined in the award) × $39.64 × 12% = $180.76. End of example   Example: casual employee using hourly-driving-rate method Rosie is a long-distance driver Grade 6 working under the Road Transport (Long Distance Operations) Award 2020 . She is a casual employee and paid under the hourly-driving-rate method. The hourly driving rate for casual employees is $45.59. Casual employees are paid an additional 15%. The rate includes 2 components: an industry disability allowance of 1.3 times a base rate an overtime allowance of 1.2 times a base rate. Although the hourly rate includes a component referred to as an overtime allowance, the allowance is not deducted from the total when calculating OTE. This is because the whole hourly driving rate is paid for what are defined to be ordinary hours of work (except where the hours worked exceed 38 hours). Rosie works her ordinary hours of 38 hours in the first 3 weeks of July 2025. Rosie's super guarantee is calculated for each weeks as: = OTE × SG rate = ordinary hours × hourly rate × SG rate = 38 hours (as defined in the award) × $45.59 × 12% = $207.89. End of example   Example: cents-per-kilometre method Jack, a Grade 6 long distance driver, travels from Melbourne to Darwin during July 2025 via the Stuart and Western Highway (3,749 km). He is paid using the cents-per-kilometre method under the Road Transport (Long Distance Operations) Award 2020 . The minimum cents per kilometre rate for a full-time employee is 52.85c/km. Jack receives: 52.85c/km × 3,749 km = $1,981.34. As this amount exceeds the minimum guaranteed payment stipulated in the award, Jack's employer uses his ordinary hours of 38 hours per week to work out his OTE. For simplicity, we allow the cents-per-kilometre rate to be applied to the kilometres driven during ‘ordinary hours of work’ based on an average driving speed of 75 km per hour. Therefore, a reasonable method of calculating the distance travelled during ordinary hours of work is: 38 hours × 75 km = 2,850 km. The calculation to determine Jack's minimum amount of super guarantee required is: = OTE × SG rate = c/km × 2,850 km × SG rate = 52.85c/km × 2,850 km × 12% = $180.75. End of example     QC 44710 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).