Work out your business taxable income | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Work out your business taxable income Calculate your business's taxable income using a calculation of business profit or loss and applying adjustments. Last updated 7 May 2025 Print or Download The formula to work out your taxable income is Assessable income minus Deductions. To work out your taxable income, use your business operating profit or loss as a starting point. You then make income or expense reconciliation adjustments to reconcile your business operating profit or loss with your business taxable income. After you have worked out your taxable income (taking into account income and deductions from business and non-business), we will work out your tax liability. We then apply your concessions, rebates and offsets. If you only have income and deductions for your business, it is a good idea to reconcile your taxable business income at the end of each financial year with the income you have submitted in your activity statements for that year. Some common examples of reconciliations include CGT, prepaid expenses and different rates of depreciation for tax purposes (rather than accounting rules). Example: reconciliation of costs Sharma has a small physiotherapy business, which she has been running for many years and she has a regular client base. In May 2019, she negotiated a discount on an 18-month insurance policy, covering the period from June 2019 to November 2020, and paid for it up front. She uses a cash accounting system for her record keeping so she included the total insurance policy expense of $3,600 as an accounting expense in May 2019. Her accounting profit for running her business for 2018–19 was $60,000, which included the entire insurance policy expense. However, for tax purposes, the insurance policy expense can't be deducted in total in the one year. It must be apportioned over the life of the policy. Sharma must reconcile her accounting profit with the tax law and add back the portion of the expense that she didn't use in the 2018–19 year. She does this by adding back $3,400 to her accounting profit. So, for tax purposes, her business taxable income is $63,400. In 2019–20, she subtracts $2,400 from her accounting profit to take into account, for tax purposes, the pre-paid insurance policy expense. In 2020–21, she reconciles the balance of $1,000. End of example For more information, see Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 section 4-15 How to work out your taxable income. QC 51611 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).