Lodge your TPAR | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Lodge your TPAR Work out how you can lodge your Taxable payments annual report (TPAR). Last updated 29 August 2025 Print or Download Info Alert TPAR paper lodgments TPAR paper lodgments are no longer accepted after 28 August 2025. For more information on online lodgment see Lodge your TPAR . How to lodge your TPAR If you are a sole trader, business, tax professional or government entity, this information will help you lodge your Taxable payments annual report (TPAR). The TPAR is due by 28 August each year. Watch the video for more information on how to lodge your TPAR: Media: How to lodge your Taxable Payments Annual Report (TPAR). https://publish.viostream.com/play/bd1bdiunjr5ooe External Link ( Duration: 1:01) Prepare to lodge your TPAR Before you lodge, you should: keep records, including the contractor's: name address Australian business number (ABN) amount you paid, including goods and services tax (GST) check if your business software can prepare and lodge the TPAR. For more information see the TPAR contractor details you must report . Watch to learn how to keep good records for your TPAR: Media: How to keep good records for TPAR. https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bd1bdiunjr5x3p External Link ( Duration: 1:06) Lodging your TPAR To meet your reporting obligations, lodge using the method that works for your situation. If you don't need to lodge, see TPAR Non-lodgment advice . To update or correct the payee (contractor) details, see Amend a lodged TPAR . Sole traders and businesses Use business software if: it is SBR-enabled software External Link your business can create a TPAR data file to the required Taxable payments annual reporting specification External Link (lodge through Online services for business using the file transfer function). If you don't have business software, use one of the following: Online services for business to use this service, you need an ABN External Link and to set up your Digital ID and Relationship Authorisation Manager (RAM) select Lodgments then Taxable payments annual reporting this service allows you to: save and resume your draft TPAR before lodging confirm previous lodgment dates and access receipt IDs in the History section Online services for individuals and sole traders select Tax , Lodgments and then Taxable payments annual report this service allows you to: save and resume your draft TPAR before lodging confirm previous lodgment dates and access receipt IDs in the History section your registered tax or Business activity statements (BAS) agent. Tax professionals Tax and BAS agents can lodge a TPAR for clients using business software if: it is SBR-enabled software External Link your business can create a TPAR data file to the required Taxable payments annual reporting specification External Link , (lodge through Online services for business using the file transfer function). If you don't have business software, use Online services for agents External Link . Online services for agents allows you to: view a client's outstanding TPARs in the For action screen or under Lodgments lodge TPARs for your clients through the online form save and resume draft TPARs for your clients before lodging confirm previous lodgment dates and access receipts in the History section. Government entities Use business software if: it is SBR-enabled software External Link your business can create a TPAR data file to the required Taxable payments annual reporting specification External Link , (lodge through Online services for business using the file transfer function). If you don't have business software, use Online services for business : to use this service, you need an ABN External Link  and to set up your Digital ID and Relationship Authorisation Manager (RAM) select Lodgments then Taxable payments annual report . Online services allow you to: save and resume your draft TPAR before lodging confirm previous lodgment dates and access receipt IDs in the History section. TPAR contractor details to report Contractor information must be provided when completing a Taxable payment annual report (TPAR). TPAR Non-lodgment advice If you don't need to lodge a Taxable payments annual report (TPAR), you can submit a Non-lodgment advice form. Amend a lodged TPAR How to amend a lodged Taxable payments annual report (TPAR) form to correct payee (contractor) details and amounts. QC 51597 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).