Pay as you go (PAYG) withholding | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Pay as you go (PAYG) withholding How to complete labels W1, W2, W3, W4, W5 and 4 on your BAS. Last updated 1 May 2025 Print or Download About PAYG withholding Under PAYG withholding , you need to withhold tax from certain payments made to others. This includes payments: to employees, company directors and office holders to workers under labour-hire agreements under voluntary agreements where an Australian business number (ABN) has not been quoted in relation to a supply. You must report any withheld amounts in the PAYG tax withheld section of your business activity statement (BAS) and pay all withheld amounts to us. If you fail to comply with the PAYG withholding obligations for a payment to a worker, you may not be entitled to a deduction for that payment. Penalties may also apply. For additional help when reporting, see: Removing tax deductibility of non-compliant payments ATO PAYG withholding pre-fill for activity statements How to complete your activity statement labels This guide will assist you to complete the pay as you go (PAYG) withholding part of your activity statement. PAYG withholding payers (generally businesses and other enterprises) must withhold tax from certain payments made to others. These payments include: payments to employees, company directors and office holders payments made to workers under labour hire arrangements payments under voluntary agreements payments where an Australian business number (ABN) has not been quoted in relation to a supply other amounts withheld, such as interest, dividend and royalty payments, that were excluded in label W2 or W4. You must report these withheld amounts in the PAYG tax withheld section of your BAS and pay all withheld amounts to us. Find more information on how to lodge and how to pay your BAS . Example activity statement The following example shows a quarterly activity statement. Your activity statement will contain all your reporting requirements and may not look exactly like this example. Example: Business activity statement – front   End of example To make sure we scan your activity statement correctly: print clearly using a black pen leave boxes blank if they don't apply to you, unless we ask you to write '0' (do not use NIL) show whole dollars only (round cents down to the nearest whole dollar) don't report negative figures or use symbols such as +, −, /, $ don't write any additional information on your activity statement – contact us if your details have changed. Example: Business activity statement – rear End of example PAYG withholding labels on your activity statement Ensure the amounts that have been withheld are reported at the correct label. The labels are: W1 – Total salary, wages and other payments W2 – Amounts withheld from salaries or wages and other payments shown at W1 W4 – Amounts withheld where no ABN is quoted W3 – Other amounts withheld (excluding any amount shown at W2 or W4) W5 – Total amounts withheld (W2 + W4 + W3) . W1 – Total salary, wages and other payments Include at W1  total gross payments from which you are usually required to withhold amounts. These payments include: salary, wages, allowances and leave loading paid to employees (including those subsidised by JobKeeper payments) director fees salary and allowances paid to office holders (including members of parliament, statutory office holders, defence force members and police officers) payments made by a labour hire firm to labour hire workers under a labour hire arrangement employment termination payments payment for unused annual or long service leave payments to religious practitioners superannuation (super) income stream super lump sum Commonwealth education and training payments. attributed personal services income. Include all payments subject to withholding , even if you weren't required to withhold any amount. For example, if you pay an employee $80 per week, and they claim the tax-free threshold, there is generally no obligation to withhold as long as they have previously provided their tax file number. However, you still need to report the total payment at  W1 . Do not include: amounts subject to salary sacrifice arrangements super contributions departing Australia superannuation payments payments from which you withheld an amount because an ABN was not quoted (see  W4 ) an investment distribution from which you withheld an amount for non-quotation of a tax file number (TFN) interest, dividends or royalty payments from which you withheld an amount for a payment to a foreign resident payments to foreign residents for entertainment, sports, construction and casino gaming junket activities. If you did not make any payments, leave the boxes blank. W2 – Amounts withheld from salaries or wages and other payments shown at W1 Include at  W2 the total amount you withheld from salaries, wages and other payments shown at  W1 . If you didn't withhold any amounts, leave the box blank. This is the main type of withholding. If you have no other withholding obligations, go to  W5 . W4 – Amounts withheld where no ABN is quoted Where you make payments to suppliers who do not quote their ABN to you, you must withhold 47% (from 1 July 2017) of the invoice amount and pay this to us. Not quoting their ABN means that there was no ABN on the invoice and the supplier did not provide it to you in any other way. Include at  W4 the total amount you withheld from payments to suppliers who did not quote their ABN to you. If you have nothing to report, leave  W4 blank. W3 – Other amounts withheld (excluding any amount shown at W2 or W4) W3 covers other types of withholding. Include the total amount you withheld from: interest, dividends, unit trust or other investment distributions you made, where the person you are paying has not filled in a TFN declaration form or otherwise provided you with a TFN (includes a foreign resident) interest, dividends or royalty payments you made to a foreign resident any departing Australia superannuation payments you made any payments you made to foreign residents, for entertainment and sport activities construction and related activities arranging casino gaming junket activities. If you have nothing to report, leave  W3 blank. W5 – Total amounts withheld (W2 + W4 + W3) Include at  W5 the total of W2  +  W4  +  W3 . Do not include  W1 in your  W5 total. Copy the total at  W5 to 4 in the 'Summary' section of your activity statement. If your activity statement only asks you to report PAYG withholding, you will not have a summary section. Your total withholding will be reported at  9 in the 'Payment or refund' section of your activity statement. Large withholders You are a large withholder if you either: have withheld amounts totalling more than $1 million in a previous income year are part of a company group which has withheld more than $1 million in a past income year. If you are a large withholder, you only need to complete  W1 on your activity statement. Do not complete  W2 , W3 , W4 , W5 or 4 in the 'Summary' section. Large withholders must pay the amounts they withhold to us electronically. If you report through Single Touch Payroll, you no longer need to report amounts at  W1 on your activity statements. Checklist Have you: filled in the PAYG instalment boxes that apply to you checked your calculations copied amounts correctly between boxes? Do you need to: complete any other sections that apply to you and copy the totals to the summary section calculate whether you must make a payment or if you're entitled to a refund complete the payment or refund details contact us to update your address ? Make sure you: sign and date your activity statement lodge your original activity statement by the due date pay any amounts you owe by the due date keep the right records .   QC 33689 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).