STP reporting options | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search STP reporting options There are different Single Touch Payroll (STP) reporting options depending on the number and type of your employees. Last updated 14 November 2024 Print or Download Counting your employees To do a headcount to work out how many employees you have, each of the following count as one employee: full-time employees part-time employees casual employees employees based overseas any employee absent or on leave (paid or unpaid). Don't include the following in your headcount: employees who have ceased working for you independent contractors staff provided by a third-party labour hire organisation office holders religious practitioners closely held payees such family members of a family business, directors or shareholders of a company and beneficiaries of a trust. If you have a mixture of employees and closely held payees (who are excluded from your headcount), you are still considered a micro employer if you have 1-4   employees . Example: counting your employees You have: three full-time employees one part-time employee two directors. You are considered to have 4 employees and are considered a micro employer. End of example Employers with 19 or fewer employees STP started from 1 July 2019 for employers with 19 or fewer employees (small employers). You should be reporting through STP now. If you haven't started STP reporting and don't have a deferral, you need to take the following steps: Start reporting now – if you use payroll software that is STP-enabled, you can start reporting now. To find out what you need to do, talk to your software provider or visit their website. See our STP checklists for important steps you need to take to connect your software to the ATO. Choose an STP-enabled software solution – if you don't use payroll software, or if your software isn't STP-enabled, you can browse the STP product register External Link to choose the right software solution for you. If you begin reporting and find the product you chose doesn’t fit your business needs, you may (subject to your contractual arrangements) change your payroll solution . Ask a third party to report for you, such as a registered tax or BAS agent or a payroll service provider. Consider if one of the concessional reporting options is right for you. If you have exceptional circumstances impacting on your ability to start reporting, apply for a deferral . Or if you meet the criteria, you can apply for an exemption . See also How to report Single Touch Payroll data Employers with 1-4 employees If you have 1-4 employees (micro employer) and you don't currently use payroll software, you have a couple of options available to you. You can browse the STP product register External Link to choose the right software solution for you or you can access the Quarterly reporting concession for micro employers . Quarterly reporting concession Your registered tax or BAS agent can report quarterly on your behalf if you meet the eligibility criteria. Applications for this concession will only be considered in exceptional circumstances. Check if you are eligible and talk your tax or BAS agent to see if this is a service they provide. Small employers with closely held payees A closely held payee means the payee is directly related to the entity from which they receive payments. For example: family members of a family-owned business directors or shareholders of a company trustees or beneficiaries of a trust. From 1 July 2021, amounts paid to all payees (including closely held payees) need to be reported through STP. Employers may not always pay closely held payees a regular salary or wage. Instead, they may draw on income from the business throughout the year. As STP information is reported each time payroll is run, it may not be practical for employers to report payments made to closely held payees as regularly. There are concessional reporting options for small employers with closely held payees. Small employers can choose to report amounts paid to closely held payees through STP in any of the following ways: report actual payments on or before the date of payment report actual payments quarterly report a reasonable estimate quarterly. Employers with 20 or more employees STP started from 1 July 2018 for employers with 20 or more employees (substantial employers). You should be reporting through STP now. If you have not yet started reporting through STP, our checklists will help you get ready. You can find out if your software is STP-enabled by talking to your software provider. Your tax or BAS agent can also help. Penalties The transition period for employers to start STP reporting has now ended. If you haven't started reporting via STP and you don’t have a deferral, we may contact you. If you don't start reporting within a reasonable amount of time, we may apply penalties . QC 54702 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).