When STP reporting can cease | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search When STP reporting can cease When Single Touch Payroll (STP) reporting can cease and what to do if you no longer have STP reporting obligations. Last updated 10 September 2021 Print or Download In some circumstances, you may no longer need to lodge Single Touch Payroll (STP) reports. When you can cease reporting and what you need to do will be different depending on your situation. No longer employing staff If you cease employing staff and continue trading without employees, you must submit a finalisation declaration for all your employees as part of finalising your STP data. Once you do this, we'll pre-fill the employees’ tax returns and display the information as 'tax ready' in myGov External Link at the end of the financial year. You can make a finalisation declaration at any time during the financial year when you have ceased employing. When you've finalised your STP obligations, you can cancel your pay as you go (PAYG) withholding registration. This will let us know that you are no longer employing staff. If you are a sole trader, the requirements will be different. See also: STP Phase 1 – Finalising your STP data STP Phase 2 – Finalising your STP data Closing your business Before you close your business and cancel your Australian business number (ABN), you must bring all your lodgment obligations up to date, including STP reporting. As part of your STP reporting, you'll need to make an STP finalisation declaration for all your employees. Once you do this, we'll pre-fill the employees’ tax returns and display the information as 'tax ready' in myGov External Link at the end of the financial year. You can make a finalisation declaration at any time during the financial year. When you have finalised your STP obligations, you can cancel your PAYG withholding registration. This will let us know that you are no longer employing staff. Once this is done, you should cancel your goods and services tax (GST) and ABN registrations so we know you've ceased trading. It is important that you finalise all outstanding STP reporting before you cancel your ABN and your software subscription in order to meet your STP obligations. If you're a company but no longer operate a business, you can choose to keep your ABN registration. However, you must cancel your GST and PAYG withholding registration and lodge an STP finalisation declaration. See also: Updating or cancelling your ABN External Link STP for insolvency practitioners Changes to your business structure If your business structure changes, the ABN and branch under which you have been generating your STP reporting may change. If this occurs, you must: finalise your STP reporting under the ABN and branch you have been using for your STP reporting start your STP reporting under the new ABN and branch using zero year-to-date employee amounts. It's important to finalise your STP reporting under the ABN and branch before you lose access to it, or it is cancelled or deregistered. See also: Transitioning from STP Phase 1 to STP Phase 2 reporting STP Phase 1 – The rules of reporting through STP STP Phase 2 – The rules of reporting through STP No payments to employees for the rest of the year If you won't be paying any employees for the rest of the financial year, or for a period greater than your reporting obligations, you should lodge a 'No requirement to report' notification. To submit this request log in to Online services for business   and complete the following steps. Select Employees , STP deferrals and exemptions, No requirement to report. Enter start and end dates. Attach any documents that we have asked for. Complete the declaration. Click Submit. When the form is submitted, you'll receive an ATO receipt ID and be advised if the request has been accepted or has been sent for assessment. See also: STP - Deferrals STP - Exemptions Pausing your business due to COVID-19 If your business has been paused due to COVID-19 and you're not currently employing, you should submit a 'No requirement to report' request. See steps above for how to submit this request using Online services for business . See also: COVID-19 Dealing with disasters When Single Touch Payroll (STP) reporting can cease and what to do if you no longer have STP reporting obligations. QC 64497 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).