Paying and reporting PAYG withholding amounts to us | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Paying and reporting PAYG withholding amounts to us Due dates for paying and reporting PAYG withholding amounts depend on your withholding status. Last updated 21 November 2025 Print or Download Withheld tax amounts If you have withheld tax amounts from payments you make to your payees, you need to: provide the withheld amounts to us report those amounts to us via Single Touch Payroll (STP) finalise your STP reporting in your payroll software for all amounts reported in STP provide payment summaries , detailing total payments and withholding, to each of your payees you haven’t reported through STP, and lodge an annual report confirming your total withholding you haven’t reported and finalised through STP. You won't need to do payment summaries nor lodge an annual report for amounts you reported and finalised through STP. For more information, see STP and activity statements . PAYGW withholding cycles The pay as you go (PAYG) withholding cycle determines how often you need to report and pay the withholding amounts to us. Where an employer's annual withholding amount is: $25,000 or less (small withholder status) – you are required to notify and pay quarterly more than $25,000 and up to $1 million (medium withholder status) – you are required to notify and pay monthly more than $1 million (large withholder status) – you are required to pay electronically within 6 to 8 days of a withholding event taking place, such as when staff are paid. Paying and reporting PAYG withholding amounts for small and medium withholders How to pay and report PAYG withholding amounts if you're a small and medium withholder. Paying and reporting PAYG withholding amounts for large withholders How to pay and report PAYG withholding amounts if you're a large withholder. Changing a withholding cycle This information will help you understand the pay as you go (PAYG) withholding cycle changes. QC 27076 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).