Deductions for other operating expenses | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Deductions for other operating expenses Operating expenses for the everyday running of businesses are generally deductible in the year you pay for them. Last updated 13 November 2024 Print or Download Operating expenses Operating expenses are the expenses you have paid for (incurred), or have to pay for (incur), in the everyday running of your business. Examples include office stationery, renting premises and purchase of trading stock. These expenses are sometimes called working or revenue expenses. You can generally claim a tax deduction for most operating expenses associated with running your business in the same income year you incur them. Ensure you keep accurate and complete records of these expenses as they occur. You can only claim the business portion of these expenses if they relate to both business and private use, for example mobile phone calls. General business operating expenses Operating expenses that are common in business include: purchases of trading stock, including delivery charges advertising and sponsorship public relations legal expenses, such as those incurred defending future earnings, borrowing money, discharging a mortgage or obtaining tax advice tender costs, even if the tender is unsuccessful bad debts bank fees and charges annual fees charged by statutory bodies (for example, ASIC)   penalties and fines imposed by statutory bodies as a result of breaches of an Australian law are not deductible (for example, late payment fees are usually penalties) insurance premiums, including accident or disability, fire, burglary, professional indemnity, public risk, motor vehicle, loss of profits insurance, or workers compensation interest on money borrowed for       producing assessable income or purchasing income-producing assets income tax obligations, employer super contributions, or late payment or lodgment of tax  lease expenses stationery small-value mobile phone and tablet accessories   for example, protective covers and earphones  costs for running a commercial website   for example, site maintenance and content updates  internet service provider fees subscription fees for off-the-shelf software transport and freight waste removal and recycling parking fees (but not parking fines) small-value items costing $100 or less. Other expenses (similar to those claimed by employees) As a business owner, you are also able to claim deductions for some business expenses that are the same as those that can be claimed as a deduction by employees, including: union dues and subscription fees to trade, business or professional associations clothing expenses (corporate wardrobes or uniforms and occupation-specific and protective clothing) expenses relating to education and technical or professional qualification subscription costs for business or professional journals, information services, newspapers and magazines costs for sunglasses, sunhats and sunscreen when your business activities require outdoor work other items that protect you or your employees from a health or injury risk in your work environment gifts and donations to organisations that have a deductible gift recipient (DGR) status. Operating expenses from employing people Expenses associated with employing people including: salary, wages and super fringe benefits, including the cost of any fringe benefit provided and the associated fringe benefits tax protective clothing required for employees to carry out work activities allowances and reimbursements paid to employees who use their own mobile device for work purposes travel expenses for relocating employees losses due to misappropriation of money by an employee or agent, for example, fraud, theft or embezzlement. Business premises operating expenses Business premises operating expenses include: electricity landline phone calls and line rental mobile phone calls (prepaid or as part of a plan) internet service fees data plans cloud storage water renting or leasing business premises rates land tax. If you incur expenses associated with setting up and using your Digital ID to access our online services in the course of running your business, such as phone and internet expenses, you may be able to claim tax deductions for the business portion of those expenses. Tax-related operating expenses Tax-related expenses include: registered tax agent and accountant fees tax-related expenses, such as having a bookkeeper prepare your business records preparing and lodging tax returns and activity statements objecting to or appealing against your assessment attending an ATO audit obtaining tax advice about your business credit card/charge card payment fee associated with paying a business tax liability, for example, GST liability.  Remember you need to keep records to substantiate your claims. QC 33867 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).