What STP is | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search What STP is Learn how STP works, what happens when you report, and how it affects new employees and activity statement reporting. Last updated 1 September 2021 Print or Download Explains what Single Touch Payroll (STP) is and how to use it to report your payroll information each pay day. Streamlined reporting Single Touch Payroll (STP) is an Australian Government initiative to streamline employers' reporting to government agencies. With STP you report employees' payroll information to us each time you pay them through STP-enabled software. Payroll information includes: salaries and wages pay as you go (PAYG) withholding superannuation liability information. STP started on 1 July 2018 for employers with 20 or more employees and 1 July 2019 for employers with 19 or fewer employees and is a mandatory obligation. From 1 January 2022, the data collected through STP was expanded (known as STP Phase 2 ) to collect additional payroll information. All employers should now be STP reporting and transitioned to STP Phase 2 reporting unless covered by a deferral or exemption . If you are new to employing, you will need to start reporting now through STP Phase 2 enabled software as soon as you start paying your employees to avoid any penalties . We have a range of resources available to help you understand your STP reporting. How STP works STP works by sending tax and super information from your STP-enabled payroll or accounting software to the ATO when you run your payroll. You will: run your payroll pay your employees as normal give them a payslip. Your pay cycle doesn't need to change. You can continue to pay your employees weekly, fortnightly or monthly. Your STP-enabled payroll software will send us a report that includes the information we need from you, such as: salaries and wages PAYG withholding super liability information. Reporting There are several ways you can report your STP data to us. STP Phase 2 doesn't change the payments you need to report through STP, but it does change how those amounts need to be reported. Full lists of the payments that must be reported in STP Phase 1 and STP Phase 2 are available in the STP employer reporting guidelines. Super funds also report to us. They let us know when you make the super payment to your employees' chosen or default fund. This is an important step toward making sure employees are paid their correct entitlements. Our systems will match the STP information to your employer and employee records. If your employees have a myGov account linked to ATO online services, they will be able to see their year-to-date tax and super information in their income statement. Their data is updated every time you report. For most employers, this will be each pay day. At the end of the financial year, you'll need to finalise your STP data. This means you are making a declaration that you have completed your reporting for the financial year. Once you finalise your data, your employee's income statement in ATO online services will be marked as 'Tax ready'. They, or their registered agent, will be able use the income statement to lodge their tax return. You won't need to provide your employees payment summaries or provide us with a payment summary annual report for amounts you report through STP. You will still need to provide payment summaries for amounts you don't report through STP. Sharing data collected from STP STP data reported by employers is shared. We exchange data with Services Australia and other government agencies  to support the administration of the welfare system and other services. Employee access If your employees have a myGov account linked to ATO online services, they will be able to see their year-to-date tax and super information in their Income statement. Their data is updated every time you report. For most employers, this will be each pay day. Finalising your data At the end of the financial year, you'll need to finalise your STP data. This means you are making a declaration that you have completed your reporting for the financial year. Once you finalise your data, your employees' Income statement in ATO online services will be marked as 'Tax ready'. They, or their registered agent, will use the Income statement to lodge their tax return. You won't need to provide us with a payment summary annual report for the payments you report through STP. If you currently lodge an activity statement you will continue to do so. Penalties We have engaged and communicated widely with employers and tax and BAS professionals since STP reporting became a mandatory obligation. If you haven't commenced STP reporting or haven't transitioned to STP Phase 2 reporting and you aren't covered by a deferral or exemption, you may be subject to failure to lodge (FTL) penalties. Explains what Single Touch Payroll (STP) is and how to use it to report your payroll information each pay day. QC 60136 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).