News, events and resources | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search News, events and resources Resources to help you understand Single Touch Payroll (STP), such as employer guides, factsheets, and webinars. Last updated 22 August 2024 Print or Download STP employer reporting guidelines These guidelines aim to help you understand what you are required to report through your STP-enabled software. This will depend on whether your digital service provider has transitioned to STP Phase 2 reporting. Single Touch Payroll Phase 1 employer reporting guidelines Single Touch Payroll Phase 2 employer reporting guidelines STP reporting help We have several resources to help with transitioning to STP Phase 2 reporting and to assist with STP reporting more broadly. Checklists Expanding Single Touch Payroll Phase 2 Employer STP Phase 2 checklist Tax and BAS professional STP Phase 2 checklist STP checklists – Get ready and Start reporting Questions and mistakes We've published information addressing common STP Phase 2 reporting questions and mistakes . We've also produced a series of short videos clarifying the questions and mistakes we're seeing: Allowance principles Opens in a new window Allowances – all purpose Opens in a new window Allowances – other Opens in a new window Cessation date and type Opens in a new window Continuity of year-to-date amounts Opens in a new window Country codes Opens in a new window Pay code or item set up Opens in a new window Reportable employer super contributions and salary sacrifice Opens in a new window . Webinars We've held several webinars to help support employers transitioning to STP and to start reporting. It's important to check for the latest and most accurate information at Single Touch Payroll . The following recordings are helpful resources but may include dated information. Webinar recordings for employers and tax professionals Single Touch Payroll Expansion (Phase 2) webinars The Single Touch Payroll Expansion (Phase 2) webinar recorded on 25 November 2021 Opens in a new window includes: 0:00 – introduction 3:27 – all-purpose rates and allowances 6:27 – annualised salaries 9:53 – other allowances 14:23 – TFN declarations 16:41 – 100% salary sacrifice 19:42 – paid parental leave 21:51 – mid-year transition to STP Phase 2 32:54 – next steps. The Single Touch Payroll expansion (Phase 2) recorded on 18 November 2021 Opens in a new window includes: 0:00 – introduction 5:34 – salary sacrifice 25:24 – other parts of pay, including reportable employer superannuation contributions and reportable fringe benefits amounts 31:35 – reporting deductions 33:45 – discussion with Services Australia on voluntary Child Support reporting 1:00:50 – next steps. The Single Touch Payroll expansion (Phase 2) recorded on 22 October 2021 Opens in a new window includes: 0:00 – introduction 5:40 – discussion with the Fair Work Ombudsman 15:02 – disaggregation of gross part 2 15:02 – paid leave 38:03 – allowances 1:04:17 – annualised salaries and all-purpose allowances 1:14:40 – next steps. The Single Touch Payroll expansion (Phase 2) recorded on 7 October 2021 Opens in a new window includes: 0:00 – introduction 5:41 – employment conditions 9:40 – tax treatments 24:05 – income types and country codes 41:03 – disaggregation of gross part 1 59:14 – lump sums and terminations 1:06:15 – reporting tax withheld 1:18:00 – key messages. The Single Touch Payroll expansion (Phase 2) recorded on 22 September 2021 Opens in a new window includes: 0:00 – introduction 3:20 – our journey so far 14:08 – what isn't changing 21:59 – a message from Services Australia 37:49 – the employer reporting guidelines 49:34 – engagement, communications and support 58:32 – panel discussion The Single Touch Payroll expansion (Phase 2) recorded on 29 March 2021 Opens in a new window includes: what is Single Touch Payroll (Phase 2) what the changes will mean for you what you can do to get ready. Closely held payees and Single Touch Payroll The Closely held payees and Single Touch Payroll webinar Opens in a new window was recorded on 2 June 2021 and covers changes to Single Touch Payroll reporting obligations for closely held payees from 1 July 2021. These include: what a closely held payee is some common business practices relating to closely held payees options for reporting closely held payees via STP. Large employers and multinationals The End of financial year processing through Single Touch Payroll webinar Opens in a new window was recorded on 14 February 2019. It has information on how to process your end of year data correctly, including: finalising data amendments after finalisation overpayments relating to previous financial years what to tell your employees. Other digital resources Media: Employers: resources to help you meet your obligations. https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bi9or7od3sesj7 External Link ( Duration: 0:48) Browse ATOtv External Link to find other helpful videos about STP. Media releases 24 June 2022 – Time to switch to Single Touch Payroll Phase 2 QC 54705 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).