Accounting for business trading stock | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Accounting for business trading stock Explains what trading stock is and that livestock is also trading stock. Last updated 9 July 2021 Print or Download Trading stock is anything your business acquires, produces or manufactures, for the purpose of manufacturing, selling or exchanging. Livestock is also trading stock. Trading stock does not include: standing or growing crops, timber or fruit – these only become trading stock when they are harvested, felled or picked stocks of spare parts held for repairs or maintenance to plant and equipment goods owned by a lending business where the goods are used to earn income by hire or rental, rather than manufacture, sale or exchange, for example furniture, DVDs, catering equipment, tools, vehicles etc. consumables used in manufacturing trading stock, such as cleaning agents or sandpaper. All businesses must account for the value of their trading stock at the end of each income year (closing stock) and at the start of the next income year (opening stock). Explains what trading stock is and that livestock is also trading stock. Valuing trading stock Check what is considered as trading stock and work out if your trading stock's value is increasing. Simplified trading stock rules If the value of your trading stock has changed by $5,000 or less, you may not have to conduct a formal stocktake. General trading stock rules Find out when general trading stock rules apply to you. Using trading stock for private purposes You must account for any business trading stock that you've taken for private use. Using assets for private purposes Work out how your business should correctly account for private use of assets, such as horses and racing cars. QC 44440 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).