Luxury car tax (LCT) | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Luxury car tax (LCT) LCT applies to cars with a GST-inclusive value exceeding the LCT threshold. Understand how to complete labels 1E and 1F. Last updated 1 May 2025 Print or Download About LCT Luxury car tax (LCT) is a 33% tax on cars with value (including GST) above our set threshold . The tax only applies to the portion of the car’s value that is above the threshold , not the total value of the car. Who needs to pay LCT and who can defer paying it? LCT is paid on luxury cars valued at more than the threshold that are: sold or import by businesses (dealers) Imported by individuals. In some circumstances, you may be able to defer paying LCT by quoting your ABN. You can do this if you plan to use the car only for one of the following purposes: to hold it for trading stock (not including holding it for hire or lease) to carry out research and development for the car's manufacturer to export it GST-free. If you stop using a car for a quotable purpose you must pay the LCT. For example, if you hold a car as trading stock and start using it for private purposes or if it becomes a capital asset of your business. Reporting and paying GST instalments If you report and pay GST using Option 3: Pay GST instalment amount and report annually, don't complete the LCT section of your BAS. Your LCT will be included in your GST instalment amount. However, you'll still need to report LCT payable ( 1E ) and LCT refundable ( 1F ) when lodging your  annual GST return . This is due at the same time as your income tax return. Reporting and paying GST annually If you report and pay GST annually you don't have to report LCT on a monthly or quarterly BAS. You'll only need to report LCT on your  annual GST return . How to complete your activity statement labels For LCT, you need to complete the following labels: 1E – Luxury car tax 1F – Luxury car tax refundable 1E – Luxury car tax Include at  1E all the LCT that you have to pay for the current reporting period. Generally, you calculate this amount for each luxury car as follows: Step 1: Take the LCT value (price including GST, before LCT is added). Step 2: Deduct the LCT threshold. Step 3: Multiply this amount by 10/11 to exclude GST. Step 4: Multiply the result by 33% to work out the LCT payable. Step 5: Add the LCT value and the LCT payable to work out the total amount that you charge a customer for the luxury car. In some cases (for example, second hand cars) LCT may have been previously payable on the car. The LCT payable on the sale that you make may be reduced by the amount previously payable. Increase in LCT amount Also include at  1E any increases to the amount of LCT that was payable on a previous business activity statement (BAS). These are known as increasing adjustments. This might arise if any of the following occur: there has been an increase in the price of the car you quoted your ABN when you purchased or imported the car and used it for a non-quotable purpose you recovered a bad debt in relation to a luxury car you previously had a decreasing adjustment and now use the luxury car for a non-quotable purpose. You will also need to make an adjustment for the amount of GST . If you have nothing to report at  1E , leave the label blank. 1F – Luxury car tax refundable Include at  1F any adjustment to LCT that was paid by you in an earlier tax period if a change of circumstances means LCT is now refundable. This can happen if any of the following occur: there is a decrease in the price of the car you have written-off a bad debt in relation to a luxury car or a debt has been overdue for 12 months or more you did not quote your ABN at the time of the purchase or import and the following applies: you intend to use the vehicle for a quotable purpose you have used the vehicle for a quotable purpose only the sale is cancelled. You will also need to make an adjustment for the amount of GST If you have nothing to report at  1F , leave the label blank. QC 33694 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).