What to exclude from your business's assessable income | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search What to exclude from your business's assessable income Work out if an amount or payment your business receives is not assessable income. Last updated 7 May 2025 Print or Download Media: What income to exclude in your business’ assessable income https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bi9or7odhi1hgz External Link ( Duration: 01:16) Non-assessable amounts If an amount or payment you receive is not assessable income, you don't need to include it in your tax return. Examples of amounts that are not assessable: betting and gambling wins (unless you operate a betting or gambling business) earnings from a hobby gifts or inheritance GST you have collected non-assessable non-exempt government grants prizes and awards not related to your business money you have borrowed money you contribute as the business owner. Non-assessable non-exempt government grants Some business support grants are non-assessable, non-exempt (NANE) income. If a business support grant you receive is NANE, you do not include it in your tax return and you do not pay tax on it. NANE grants include: COVID-19 business support payments Natural disaster grants Water infrastructure improvement payments COVID-19 business support payments You don't need to pay tax on some COVID-19 payments from the government to support businesses. Eligible payments will be NANE income for tax purposes if you meet the criteria. For more information, see Eligible COVID-19 business grants and support programs . Example: Receiving a grant eligible for NANE income Fresh Brew is a small business operating a café in Victoria. Fresh Brew received an eligible grant payment under Business Costs Assistance Program Round Two for the 2020–21 financial year. This package is part of the Victorian Government's response to the economic impacts of COVID-19. The Minister has declared that the Business Costs Assistance Program Round Two is a grant program that's eligible for NANE income. In the 2020–21 financial year, Fresh Brew self-assessed and identified that its aggregated turnover was less than $50 million in the income year the payment was received. As Fresh Brew received an eligible grant payment in the 2020–21 financial year and its aggregated turnover is less than $50 million, it does not need to include the grant in its business income. End of example For more information, see tax implications of government grants or payments you receive as a result of COVID-19 . Natural disaster grants If your business has been affected by a natural disaster, you may receive a government support grant or payment to help you recover. These payments are counted as assessable income unless they are made non-taxable by parliament. For more information, see Disaster support grants and deductions for business . Water infrastructure improvement payments You can choose to treat payments received for sustainable rural water use and infrastructure programs as NANE income or ordinary income. For more information on the choice options and eligible programs, see Sustainable rural water use and infrastructure program . QC 44457 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).