Fringe benefits tax (FBT) instalment | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Fringe benefits tax (FBT) instalment How to complete labels F1, F2, F3, F4, 6A and 6B on your BAS. Last updated 1 May 2025 Print or Download About FBT Fringe benefits tax (FBT) is a tax employers pay on certain benefits you provide to your employees, including your employees' family or other associates. The benefits may be in addition to, or part of, salary or wages packages. FBT is separate from income tax. If you were required to pay FBT of $3,000 or more in the past financial year, then you need to lodge your BAS and pay quarterly. To pay the instalment amount, complete the following labels: F1 – ATO instalment amount 6A – FBT instalment If you want to vary your FBT instalment, also use: F2 – Estimated FBT for the year F3 – Varied amount for the quarter F4 – Reason code for variation 6B – Credit from FBT instalment variation F1 – ATO instalment amount If you pay FBT quarterly, a pre-determined instalment will be shown at F1 . We calculate the amount at F1 based on the FBT payable on your most recent FBT assessment. If you think that using the amount displayed at F1 will result in you paying more (or less) than your expected FBT liability for the year, you can vary it. If you are not varying your instalment amount, copy the amount at F1 to 6A in the Summary section of your business activity statement (BAS). F2, F3, F4 – Varying your instalment amount If you want to vary the amount displayed at F1 , you'll need to complete labels F2 , F3 and F4 . If you vary your instalment amount and your total instalments for the year – or the estimates that you base them on – are less than 90% of your actual FBT liability for the year, you may incur a penalty. F2 – Estimated FBT for the year Include at F2 your estimate of your total FBT liability for the FBT year ending 31 March. F3 – Varied amount for the quarter Work out the amount of your varied FBT instalment for the quarter using the following formula: ( F2 amount x relevant percentage) minus (previous instalment liabilities less any previous credits claimed) The relevant percentage depends on the FBT quarter in which you are varying the instalment amount: Quarter ending Relevant percentage 30 June 25% 30 September 50% 31 December 75% 31 March 100% If the result is a positive amount, enter it at F3 . If it's a negative amount or zero, enter '0' at F3 . If it's a negative amount, you may want to claim a credit at 6B in the 'summary' section. Don't show a minus sign at 6B . F4 – Reason code for variation If you've varied your FBT instalment amount, you need to tell us why. Choose the reason from the table below, and enter the corresponding code at F4 . Reason Code Current business structure not continuing 22 Change in fringe benefits for employees 30 Change in employees with fringe benefits 31 Fringe benefits rebate now claimed 32 6A – FBT instalment If you're using the FBT instalment amount displayed at F1, copy this amount to 6A . If you've varied your FBT instalment amount for the quarter, copy the FBT instalment amount you wrote at F3 to 6A . 6B – Credit from FBT instalment variation If you vary your estimated FBT for the year to an amount lower than the FBT you had to pay last year, you may get an FBT instalment credit. You should take this credit into account when working out any amount payable. The credit is only available where the calculation of the F3 amount gives a negative amount. Example: varying your FBT instalment In the quarter ending 31 December, the amount of $10,000 is displayed on your BAS at F1 . This results in a notional FBT amount of $40,000 for the year – that is, $10,000 x four quarters. Step 1: You estimate that your FBT liability for this year will reduce to $28,000, as several employees have left and will not be replaced. Step 2: Enter your estimated annual FBT amount of 28,000 at F2 . Step 3: As this is the quarter ending 31 December the relevant percentage is 75%. Use the formula: ( F2 amount x 75%) − (previous instalments liabilities − any previous credits claimed) ($28,000 x 75%) − ($20,000 − 0) = $21,000 − $20,000 = $1,000. Enter the figure of 1,000 at F3 on your BAS, and then copy it to 6A in the summary section of your BAS. Step 4: To advise us of your reason for varying, choose the reason code ( F4 ) which is closest to your circumstances. Enter this code at F4 . In this example, the best choice is 'change in employees with fringe benefits: Code 31’. End of example QC 33675 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).