Insurance settlements | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Insurance settlements There are circumstances where you do not have to pay GST on an insurance settlement. Last updated 16 June 2015 Print or Download You do not have to pay GST on an insurance settlement, provided you tell the insurer before making the claim what proportion of the premium you can claim GST credits for. (You can claim GST credits on the part of the premium that relates to business purposes.) If you do not tell your insurer before making the claim, you may have to pay GST when your claim is settled and you lodge an activity statement. The insurer will expect to cover you only for the actual loss – that is, the loss minus the amount of GST credits you can claim on the repair or replacement cost of the item insured. See also Insurance and GST GST Ruling: Insurance settlements and entitlement to input tax credits Claiming GST credits You do not have to pay GST on an insurance settlement, provided you tell the insurer before making the claim what proportion of the premium you can claim GST credits for (that is, what proportion is business-related). QC 22429 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).