Home-based businesses expenses – company or trust | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Home-based businesses expenses – company or trust Home-based businesses run as a company or trust need a genuine, market-rate rental contract with the property owner. Last updated 7 May 2025 Print or Download If you run your home-based business as a company or trust, your business should have a genuine, market-rate rental contract (or similar agreement) with the owner of the property. The agreement will determine which expenses the business pays for and can claim as a deduction. If you have an area of your home set aside as a 'place of business', you may be able to claim both occupancy expenses and running expenses . Where you run your business from home and don't have an area specifically set aside for your business activities, you can still claim running expenses. If personal services income (PSI) rules apply to your business, you may not be able to claim occupancy expenses. You can use the PSI tool This link opens in a new window to work out whether you earned PSI, and if the PSI rules apply to that income. If there isn’t a genuine rental contract, there may be tax implications for the property owner and the business for providing benefits to them. Implications when you are both the business owner and an employee If you're both the business owner and also an employee of the business, and the business pays for or reimburses you for some of the expenses of running the business from home, you can't claim a deduction for the expenses in your individual income tax return. The business will have to pay fringe benefits tax (FBT) if it pays or reimburses you for the expenses as an employee. Certain exemptions and concessions may apply to reduce the FBT liability. Additional records may need to be kept for FBT purposes. Example: company with a rental contract Gary is a music producer who runs his business – Gary's Tunes Pty Ltd – as a company from the home that he owns. Gary's house has a dedicated studio space where he keeps his music recording and editing equipment and computer. He bought these using his company account and only uses them for the business. Gary's Tunes Pty Ltd has a formal rental agreement with Gary to hire the studio for $500 per month. The rent covers use of the space and facilities, such as electricity. This is consistent with what it would cost the company to hire a similar studio elsewhere. Gary's Tunes Pty Ltd claims tax deductions for: rent paid to Gary the full cost of the music equipment and computer as depreciating assets . Gary must report the rental income that he receives from his company in his personal income tax return. He can claim a deduction for his expenses associated with making that income. End of example   QC 59280 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).