Home-based business expenses – sole trader or partnership | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Home-based business expenses – sole trader or partnership How to claim occupancy and running expenses for the business use area of your home as a sole trader or partnership. Last updated 27 May 2026 Print or Download Determine if your home has a 'place of business' You can claim the business portion of your occupancy expenses and running expenses if you have an area of your home set aside as a ‘place of business’. Signs that an area of your home has the character of a 'place of business' include: clearly identifiable as a place of business, for example, you have a sign identifying your business at the front of your house not readily suitable or adaptable for private or domestic purposes used exclusively or almost exclusively for carrying on your business used regularly for visits by your clients. For example, a home hair salon business that is in the home but separate from the family living areas and has a dedicated entry for clients. If you have an area of your home set aside as a place of business, you may have to pay tax on any capital gains you make when you sell your home. This applies even if you didn't claim a deduction for mortgage interest as an occupancy expense. Occupancy expenses Occupancy expenses are what you pay to own, rent or use your home. They include: council rates house insurance premiums land taxes mortgage interest or rent. You can only claim occupancy expenses if the area of your home set aside for your business has the character of a ‘place of business’. If you are eligible to claim occupancy expenses, you will also be able to claim running expenses. However, if the personal services income (PSI) rules apply to your business, you may not be able to claim occupancy expenses. You can use the PSI tool to work out whether you earned PSI, and if the PSI rules apply to that income. Calculating occupancy expenses You would usually calculate occupancy expenses based on the percentage of the floor area of your home that is a place of business and the proportion of the year it was used for business. In some circumstances, you may not be able to work out the floor area of your home that is used for your business. We will accept an alternative method of working out how much of your home you use for business purposes, if the method you use is reasonable and based on accurate information. Make sure you keep accurate records of how you worked out the occupancy expenses you claim as deductions. If you’re a sole trader with simple tax affairs, you can use the myDeductions tool in the ATO app to record your expenses. Example: claiming occupancy expenses Alex is a sole trader operating an auto electrical business from his home. He uses a workshop attached to his house to carry on his business. Alex installed signage on the workshop doors so that customers can easily identify his business. The workshop is used almost exclusively for his business and has the character of a 'place of business'. Alex uses the PSI tool to work out that the PSI rules do not apply to his income. Therefore, Alex can claim the business portion of his occupancy expenses. Alex's workshop covers 10% of the floor area of his home and was used solely for business during the entire income year, so he can claim deductions for 10% of his occupancy expenses which include: council rates house insurance premiums mortgage interest. Alex can also claim running expenses . End of example Running expenses You can claim the additional running expenses you incur as a result of running your business from home, even if you don’t have an area of your home set aside as a ‘place of business’. Running expenses include: cleaning costs electricity charges for heating, cooling, lighting and to run electronic items used for work gas charges for heating mobile, home telephone and internet expenses stationery and computer consumables the decline in value (depreciation) and cost of repairs of equipment, such as computers, tools and machinery furniture, for example, chairs, desks and bookcases furnishings, such as curtains, carpets, light fittings (you can only claim furnishings if you have a dedicated or separate room). Calculating running expenses To claim a deduction for running expenses, you need to work out the portion of the expense that relates to business use. There are several ways to work out the business portion of your running expenses. You can use any calculation method, provided: it's reasonable in your circumstances you exclude the percentage of costs that are your private (normal) living costs you have records to show how you calculated the expense. Your business use of the home area must be substantial and not incidental. For example, you can't claim electricity costs 24 hours per day simply because your fax machine is always on to receive business faxes. If you’re unsure of which method to use, you can calculate your running expenses using each of these methods below and choose the one that gives you the best result. Fixed rate method The fixed rate method allows you to claim a fixed rate for each hour you work from home during the income year. It covers additional running expenses for usage of electricity, gas, internet, mobile and home telephone, as well as incidentals such as stationery and computer consumables. This means you can’t claim a separate deduction for any of these expenses. The fixed rate method does not require you to have an area of your home set aside exclusively for business. It also allows you to separately claim the business-related portion of depreciating assets and equipment, including their repairs and maintenance costs, and any other running expenses that aren't included in the fixed rate. If you choose to use the fixed rate method, you need to keep: a record of all hours worked from home for the entire income year (such as timesheets, roster or diary) evidence for each of the running expenses covered by the fixed rate method that you have incurred (for example, if you use your phone and electricity for your home-based business, keep one monthly or quarterly bill for each of these expenses) records of your personal and business-related use of your depreciating assets and other expenses not covered by the rate. Example: using the fixed rate method as a sole trader Harper is a sole trader who doesn’t have a dedicated business premises. She travels to her clients’ houses each day from home. She does her bookkeeping in her dining room on a computer she purchased on 10 November 2025 that she only uses for her business. Harper keeps a detailed record of all hours she spends working from home for the period from 1 July 2025 to 30 June 2026. Harper calculates that she spent 480 hours this income year on her bookkeeping. Harper claims: running expenses, by multiplying the fixed rate for the income year by 480 hours the cost of her computer under the simplified depreciation rules, because depreciation is not covered by the fixed rate. Harper can't claim: occupancy expenses, as she does not have a dedicated area of her home set aside for her business. End of example Floor area method You can use the floor area method if you have an area of your home set aside as a 'place of business'. The floor area method is often the most appropriate method to work out the business portion of running expenses, including: cleaning electricity gas. To work out the percentage of your home that is a place of business, you divide the floor area set aside for business by the total floor area of the home. If that area was only a place of business for part of the year, you can only claim running expenses for the proportion of the year it was used for business. You need to keep records of your expenses and how you worked out the percentage of your floor area that is a place of business. In addition to the floor area method, you can also claim a deduction for the decline in value of the business-related portion of depreciating assets and equipment. Example: sole trader using the floor area method Ellen is a sole trader who runs an online business in the spare room (which is 10m² and set aside exclusively for business) of her 560m² home. She spends $2,500 on electricity over the income year. To work out the amount of the electricity expense she can claim as a deduction, she calculates the floor area of the spare room as a percentage of her entire home floor area and multiplies the result by the relevant expenditure: (Floor area for business use divided by the total floor area of home) × relevant expenditure (10m² ÷ 560m²) × $2,500 = $44.64. Ellen can claim $44.64 for the business portion of her annual electricity cost. End of example Actual cost method You can use this method if you incur additional expenses running your business from home. You don’t need to have an area set aside exclusively for business, but you do need to keep records which show the amount: you spend on expenses you spend on depreciating assets you buy and use of business-related use for your expenses and depreciating assets. You must also keep all the receipts, bills and other documents which show the additional running expenses you incurred running your business from home. This may include: heating, cooling and lighting phone and internet decline in value (depreciation) of assets To calculate the business portion of your expenses, you need to work out the periods of time that you use an area in your home for business. One way you may be able to do this is by keeping a diary for a representative 4-week period, showing how you use your home area for business purposes. You can then apply that as a pattern of use for the whole year. However, don’t forget to exclude periods when you were on holidays or not working because of illness. If there's no regular pattern of how you use your home area for business, you must keep records of: each time you use the area during the year what the area was used for. Heating, cooling and lighting Work out the actual cost of your heating, cooling and lighting by using the: cost per unit of power used (your utility bill has this information) average units used per hour, which is the power consumption per kilowatt hour for each appliance, equipment or light used total annual hours used for business-related purposes by checking your record of hours worked or your diary. Phone and internet If you have a home telephone or mobile that you only use for your business, you can claim a deduction for all call, purchase and rental costs. However, you can't claim for the cost of installing a home telephone or purchasing a phone or mobile as this is a capital expense. The same rule applies to installing your internet. If you use your phone for both business and private calls, you can claim a deduction only for the business use portion of phone expenses. If you have an itemised phone bill, you can work out the business use portion of the costs by: counting the number of business calls you made and received and dividing it by the number of total calls made and received. For internet expenses, you can claim the proportion of time or data you used your internet for business use. If you don't have an itemised bill or a data breakdown, you can keep a diary for a representative 4-week period to work out your pattern of business calls or internet use throughout the year. Example: working out the business use percentage of your bill Cleo receives a monthly bill for $200 from her phone provider. From her itemised bill, Cleo works out that 160 of the 300 calls she made in March 2026 were directly related to her business. Cleo works out her business use percentage as 160 ÷ 300 = 0.53. She then applied this rate to her $200 bill ($200 × 0.53 = $106). Therefore, Cleo can claim $106 as a deduction. End of example Decline in value (depreciation) of assets A depreciating asset is an asset that has a limited effective life and can reasonably be expected to decline in value over the time it is used. For example: carpet and curtains computers electrical tools furnishings photocopiers. If your business meets the eligibility criteria, you can immediately deduct the business portion of the cost of certain assets under the simplified depreciation rules . Otherwise, you may be able to claim a deduction for the decline in value of your depreciating assets under the general depreciation rules . If you use the fixed rate method, you can separately claim a deduction for the decline in value of your depreciating assets (such as office furniture, computer equipment or laptops). If you use the temporary shortcut method (for the 2019–20, 2020–21 or 2021–22 income years), you can't separately claim a deduction for the decline in value of depreciating assets or any other running expenses as they are included in the rate. When using this method, you must opt out of temporary full expensing for depreciating assets acquired after 6 October 2020. Example: options for working out running expenses for a sole trader Pam operates a business as a sole trader from her home. Her business is eligible to use the simplified depreciation rules. She considers 2 different ways she can work out her deductions for her running expenses for the 2026 income year. She buys a desk and chair on 1 July 2025 that she immediately uses only for work, keeps all her receipts, and keeps a record of all her hours worked from home. Pam spends 30 hours a week (with 4 weeks of holidays a year) on her business and keeps all required records. She works out the business use portion of her home-based business expenses based on this established pattern of use. Option 1 – running expenses using the actual cost method and simplified depreciation rules Table 1: Option 1 calculation Table 1: Option 1 calculation Item Cost Deduction for this year Decline in value of desk Cost $880 $880 Decline in value of chair Cost $266 $266 Electricity for 100W lamp 1c per hour for 30 hours a week for 48 weeks $14.40 Electricity for 60W ceiling light 0.6c per hour for 30 hours a week for 48 weeks $8.64 Electricity for computer 1c per hour for 30 hours a week for 48 weeks $14.40 Electricity for heating and cooling 9c per hour for 30 hours a week for 48 weeks $129.60 Total deductible amount - $1,313.04 Using the actual cost method and simplified depreciation rules, Pam can claim $1,313.04 for the income year. Option 2 – Running expenses using the fixed rate method and simplified depreciation rules Pam has the option of using the fixed rate method to calculate her business-related running expenses as she has a record of all hours worked from home for the entire 2026 income year and meets all the other record keeping requirements. Pam spent a total of 1,440 hours working from home. As her business meets the eligibility criteria for the simplified depreciation rules, she can also claim the full cost of the desk and chair in the current year. When working out her deductions for running expenses, Pam ensures she applies the correct fixed rate method for the 2026 income year. Table 2: Option 2 calculation Table 2: Option 2 calculation Item Cost Deduction for this year Running expenses 70c per hour for 1,440 hours $1,008 Decline in value of desk Cost $880 $880 Decline in value of chair Cost $266 $266 Total deductible amount - $2,154 Using the fixed rate method and simplified depreciation rules, Pam can claim $2,154 for the income year. End of example Apportionment for business purposes If you use a depreciating asset only for business purposes, you work out your depreciation deductions using the asset's full cost. However, if you also use the asset partly for private purposes, you work out your depreciation deductions based on the business use percentage of the asset's cost. You can estimate your business use percentage based on a diary record of your business and private use of the asset for a representative 4-week period. Your diary record must show: what the asset was used for whether the use was for business or private purposes the period the asset was used for. If you are registered for GST and can claim a GST credit for purchasing a depreciating asset, you must exclude the GST you paid when calculating the asset's cost for depreciation purposes. Example: partnership claiming running expenses Vinh and Barbara are partners operating a business from their living room. They don't have an area of their home set aside exclusively for their business, so they can't claim occupancy expenses. However, they can claim running expenses associated with carrying on their home-based business, such as phone, internet, gas and electricity. Vinh and Barbara have a separate phone line installed for their business. They can claim a deduction for their total phone rental and call expenses, but not for the installation as this is a capital expense. They incur additional electricity and gas expenses from operating their business from home. They keep a diary for 4 weeks to work out their pattern of business use and then apply it for the entire year. They then use this pattern to work out the percentage of gas and electricity expenses they can claim. However, they can't claim gas and electricity expenses for times when others also use the living room. They may also claim the: ongoing cost of their internet connection, apportioned for any private use. decline in value of depreciating assets used in operating their business, apportioned for any private use. End of example More information PCG 2023/1 Claiming a deduction for additional running expenses incurred while working from home – ATO compliance approach PS LA 2001/6 Verification approaches for electronic device usage expenses TR 93/30 Income tax: deductions for home office expenses Motor vehicle expenses for a home-based business QC 59276 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).