Work out if you need to lodge a TPAR | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Work out if you need to lodge a TPAR Work out if you need to lodge a Taxable payments annual report (TPAR) for payments or grants made to contractors. Last updated 23 April 2024 Print or Download Some businesses and government entities need to lodge a Taxable payments annual report (TPAR) for payments made to contractors or subcontractors for certain services during the financial year. Some government entities need to report grants paid to people or organisations with an Australian business number (ABN) A TPAR must be lodged by 28 August each year. Taxable payment reporting system services The services that come under the Taxable payment reporting system (TPRS) are: building and construction  cleaning  courier and road freight  information technology (IT)  security, investigation or surveillance. If your business provides these services and pays contractors to deliver them, you may need to lodge a TPAR. When your business provides TPRS services and other unrelated services If your business provides both courier and road freight services, you must combine the payments you receive for both these services. Do this when you work out if you need to lodge a TPAR. If TPRS services are only part of the services your business provides, you need to work out what percentage of the payments you receive are for TPRS services each financial year. You do this to determine if you need to lodge a TPAR. This doesn't apply to building and construction services you provide. If the total payments you receive for TPRS services are: 10% or more of your business income: you must lodge a TPAR less than 10% of your business income: you do not need to lodge a TPAR. Steps to work out if you need to lodge Step 1: calculate your total payments received from contractors for each relevant service. Add up all payments your business received for each relevant TPRS service during the financial year. Include payments received when employees, contractors or sub-contractors performed services on your behalf. Step 2: calculate your current or projected business income If you have been operating your business for: the full financial year: use your current business income for the year less than 12 months of the financial year: use your projected business income. Do this by working out what your business income will be for the next full financial year. Step 3: calculate what percent of your business income is from a relevant service Calculate this percentage by using the following formula for each financial year: Total payments received for a relevant service ÷ current or projected business income x 100 = % You must lodge a TPAR if: 10% or more of your business income for the financial year is from a relevant service you made payments to contractors for a relevant service during the year. If you need to lodge a TPAR, report the total contractor payments made to each contractor for the relevant service provided on your behalf. Payments businesses need to report in their TPAR Businesses need to report payments made to contractors in their Taxable payments annual report (TPAR). Payments government entities need to report in their TPAR Government entities need to report certain payments and grants in their Taxable payments annual report (TPAR). Building and construction services Lodge a Taxable payments annual report (TPAR) to report payments made to contractors. Cleaning services When a business providing cleaning services must lodge a TPAR to report payments made to contractors. Courier services When a business providing courier and delivery services must lodge a TPAR to report payments made to contractors. Information technology services When a business providing IT services must lodge a Taxable payments annual report to report payments to contractors. Road freight services When a business providing road freight services must lodge a Taxable TPAR to report payments made to contractors. Security, investigation or surveillance services When a business providing security, investigation or surveillance services must lodge a TPAR for contractor payments. QC 55378 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).