Wine equalisation tax (WET) | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Wine equalisation tax (WET) When and how to complete labels 1C and 1D on your BAS. Last updated 1 May 2025 Print or Download If you make wine, import wine into Australia or sell it by wholesale, you'll generally have to account for wine equalisation tax (WET). WET is a tax of 29% of the wholesale value of wine. It is only payable if you are registered or required to be registered for GST. Report and pay GST instalments If you report and pay GST using Option 3: Pay GST instalment amount and report annually , don't complete the WET section of your BAS. Your WET will be included in your GST instalment amount. However, you'll still need to report WET payable ( 1C ) and WET refundable ( 1D ) when lodging your annual GST return . This is due at the same time as your income tax return. Report and pay GST annually If you report and pay GST annually you are not required to report WET on a monthly or quarterly BAS, however you must report WET on your annual GST return . How to complete your activity statement labels Wine manufacturers, wholesalers and importers need to complete the WET section of the business activity statement (BAS). If you have no WET to report, enter ‘0’ at 1C and 1D . To report on WET, you need to complete the following labels: 1C – WET payable Enter at 1C all WET that you're liable to pay in the current reporting period. This includes all your assessable dealings, the most common being wholesale sales and retail sales. 1D – WET refundable Include at 1D the amount of WET refundable. Calculate the WET you are entitled to as a credit in the current reporting period. You can claim a WET credit if you’ve overpaid WET, are entitled to a producer rebate for certain exports or imports, or where you've written off a bad debt. If you have nothing to report, enter '0' at 1D . QC 33703 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).