Personal services income | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Personal services income Defines what personal services income (PSI) is and how to correctly record and report PSI. Income that is PSI Personal services income (PSI) is income produced mainly (more than 50%) from your skills or efforts as an individual. Income that is not PSI Certain types of income are not personal services income (PSI). Working out if the PSI rules apply How the personal services income (PSI) rules apply to you and how to self-assess based on your situation. What to do when the PSI rules apply When the PSI rules apply to your income, they affect how you report that PSI and the deductions you can claim. What to do if the PSI rules don't apply Even when the PSI rules don't apply, you still need to declare any PSI on your tax return. Record keeping for PSI If you've received personal services income (PSI), you need to ensure you keep the correct business records. Seek further advice about PSI Seek professional advice if you are still unsure about how the PSI rules apply to you or your business. QC 16906 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).