List of payments that are ordinary time earnings | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search List of payments that are ordinary time earnings Use this list to work out which payments count as ordinary time earnings (OTE) or salary and wages for super guarantee. Last updated 30 April 2026 Print or Download Info Alert This information is only for employee earnings paid up to 30 June 2026. For employee earnings paid from 1 July 2026, the new Payday Super rules apply. See What payments are qualifying earnings. About payment types As an employer, you use: ordinary time earnings (OTE) to work out the minimum super guarantee contribution for your employees. OTE is the amount you pay employees for their ordinary hours of work, including things like commissions and shift loadings. OTE is defined in the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 (SGAA). salary and wages to work out the super guarantee charge. You only need to do this if you missed paying the minimum super guarantee contribution by the due date. Salary and wages are similar to OTE but also include any overtime payments. The following tables are a non-exhaustive list of common amounts employers pay. They are aligned to the Single Touch Payroll Phase 2 reporting guidelines and indicate which amounts are considered salary and wages and OTE. You can use these tables to help you work out the minimum SG contribution for your employees. You may have additional superannuation obligations under an industrial instrument External Link (award or agreement) to pay super on amounts that are not OTE. Gross How you work out OTE might be impacted if your employee has a salary sacrifice arrangement in place. You may have additional super obligations under an industrial instrument External Link (award or agreement) to pay super on amounts that are not OTE. Table 1: Gross Payment Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Ordinary hours of work External Link : as defined in an award or agreement, or if the ordinary hours of work are not stated in an award or agreement, or not separated from other hours, the total hours Yes Yes Casual loading Yes Yes Shift penalties External Link (including public holiday penalties) Yes Yes Workers compensation External Link – payment for hours an employee performs work or is required to attend work See Workers' compensation (paid leave type W) Yes Yes Piece rates External Link for work done during ordinary hours Yes Yes Daily rates for employees compensated using a flat daily rate Yes Yes Flexi time: all ordinary hours paid to employees under a flexi time arrangement flexi time arrangements are considered different to rostered days off (RDOs) and time off in lieu (TOIL) Yes Yes Breach of break payments External Link , such as for rest, meal and crib: where an employee doesn't get an appropriate break, some awards require employees to be paid at overtime rates until the employee is released from duty even though the employee is being paid at overtime rates, they are working ordinary hours Yes Yes Time for travel or training paid within the span of ordinary hours Yes Yes Charge rates for work performed, outcomes achieved, or targets met by contractors Yes Yes Public holidays External Link – not worked, or worked as ordinary hours. For more information see overtime . Yes Yes   Example: ordinary hours of work not stated Kim works in a call centre. Under her contract she works a minimum number of hours per week. She also works extra shifts when needed, though there is no clear pattern to this. There is no award or agreement that specifies Kim's ordinary hours of work, and she is not paid overtime rates for her extra shifts. All of Kim's wages are OTE. As there are no stipulated ordinary hours of work, and no pattern of regular or usual hours, Kim's ordinary hours of work are all the hours she actually works. All the payments to Kim are also salary or wages. End of example   Example: piece-rates where no ordinary hours stated Evan works part time as a fruit picker for Golden Fruit Farm Pty Ltd. He is paid 15 cents for every kilogram of apples he picks. There are no ordinary hours specified in any award or agreement. Evan picks 5,000 kilograms of apples in his 30 working hours in the week and is paid $750 by Golden Fruit Farm Pty Ltd, as the piece rate amount is higher than his minimum wage guarantee under the Horticulture Award. The $750 paid to Evan is OTE. As his ordinary hours of work are not specified in any award or agreement, his ordinary hours of work are the hours that he actually works. The $750 paid to Evan is also salary or wages. End of example Paid leave and other payments Paid leave includes the various forms of payment including absences, cashing out in service or upon termination. Other paid leave (paid leave type O) How you work out OTE might be impacted if your employee has a salary sacrifice arrangement in place. You may have additional super obligations under an industrial instrument External Link  (award or agreement) to pay super on amounts that are not OTE. Table 2: Other paid leave (paid leave type O) Payment Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Annual leave External Link Yes Yes Annual leave loading that is clearly linked to a lost opportunity to work overtime Yes No Annual leave loading External Link – all other Yes Yes Long service leave External Link that is not paid under a portable long service leave scheme Yes Yes Long service leave that is paid by a scheme administrator under a portable long service leave scheme External Link No No Family and domestic violence leave External Link Yes Yes Rostered days off External Link – time taken and paid at ordinary rates Yes Yes Sick, personal and carers leave External Link Yes Yes Time off in lieu (TOIL) of overtime External Link – time taken and paid at ordinary rates Yes Yes Study leave Yes Yes Special paid leave Yes Yes Gardening leave Yes Yes Paid parental leave (paid leave type P) How you work out OTE might be impacted if your employee has a salary sacrifice arrangement in place. You may have additional super obligations under an industrial instrument External Link  (award or agreement) to pay super on amounts that are not OTE. Table 3: Paid parental leave (paid leave type P) Payment Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Employer paid parental leave External Link , such as maternity leave, paternity leave or adoption leave No No Government paid parental leave (GPPL) No No Workers' compensation (paid leave type W) When considering workers’ compensation for OTE purposes, this refers only to amounts you pay in relation to compensation schemes administered by either a: federal, state or territory workers’ compensation authority federal, state or territory road and transport accident authority. How you work out OTE might be impacted if your employee has a salary sacrifice arrangement in place. You may have additional super obligations under an industrial instrument External Link  (award or agreement) to pay super on amounts that are not OTE. Table 4: Workers' compensation (paid leave type W) Payment Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Workers compensation External Link – payment for hours an employee performs work or is required to attend work Yes Yes Workers compensation External Link – employee is not required to work, including any top-ups or make-up pay to bring the amount paid on these absences up to their normal rate of pay No No Ancillary and defence leave (paid leave type A) Fair Work defines a range of leave types that are collectively referenced as 'ancillary' leave. How you work out OTE might be impacted if your employee has a salary sacrifice arrangement in place. You may have additional super obligations under an industrial instrument External Link  (award or agreement) to pay super on amounts that are not OTE. Table 5: Ancillary and defence leave (paid leave type A) Payment Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Community service leave External Link , including voluntary emergency management activities for bodies such as a State Emergency Service, Country Fire Authority and the RSPCA No No Jury duty leave External Link , including attendance for jury selection and jury duty No No Defence reserve leave External Link , paid to volunteers of the Australian Defence Forces to undertake defence services No No Cash out of leave in service (paid leave type C) How you work out OTE might be impacted if your employee has a salary sacrifice arrangement in place. You may have additional super obligations under an industrial instrument External Link  (award or agreement) to pay super on amounts that are not OTE. Table 6: Cash out of leave in service (paid leave type C) Payment Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Cashed out annual leave External Link and leave loading in service Refer to Overtime for leave loading that is referrable to the lost opportunity to work overtime Yes Yes Cashed out long service leave in service Refer to Other paid leave (paid leave type O) for long service leave paid under a portable leave scheme Yes Yes Cashed out sick, personal and carer’s leave in service External Link Yes Yes Cashed out rostered days off in service Yes Yes Cashout of TOIL of overtime pay in service Yes No Unused leave on termination (paid leave type U) How you work out OTE might be impacted if your employee has a salary sacrifice arrangement in place. You may have additional super obligations under an industrial instrument External Link  (award or agreement) to pay super on amounts that are not OTE. This section only applies to the specific leave types referenced below. For other types of leave paid upon termination, see Termination payments External Link Table 7: Unused leave on termination (paid leave type U) Payment Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Annual leave or leave loading External Link accrued after 17 August 1993 paid on a normal termination, such as voluntary resignation, employment terminated due to inefficiency, or retirement Yes No Long service leave External Link accrued after 17 August 1993 paid on a normal termination, such as voluntary resignation, employment terminated due to inefficiency, or retirement Yes No Allowances Allowances External Link may be paid to compensate employees: for their work efforts to recognise a higher skill level to compensate for adverse work conditions to compensate for the employee incurring an expense. How you work out OTE might be impacted if your employee has a salary sacrifice arrangement in place. You may have additional super obligations under an industrial instrument External Link  (award or agreement) to pay super on amounts that are not OTE. Table 8: Allowances Payment Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Hourly on-call allowance for ordinary hours of work Yes Yes Task allowances for: work efforts or skills – such as industry allowances, higher duties, leading hand, first aid or supervisor allowances adverse conditions – such as allowances for working at heights, in confined spaces, in the cold, wet or heat, or danger staying employed with the current employer – such as for retention allowances. These are reported as allowance type KN in your STP reporting. Yes Yes Expense allowances that are paid with the reasonable expectation that the money will be fully expended by the employee in the course of providing their services No No Allowances that represent partial compensation for expenses likely to be incurred by employees that are paid: regardless of whether or not the employee incurred the expense, or where the allowance amount has no relationship to the actual cost incurred by the employee. Yes Yes   Example: expense allowance expected to be used in full Matteo is paid a tool allowance under the Joinery and Building Trades Award External Link . It is expected that Matteo will use the whole allowance to supply and maintain his tools. Matteo’s employer doesn't make SG contributions on the tool allowance as it is not OTE. End of example Overtime Overtime External Link payments are not OTE, provided the employee's ordinary hours of work are clearly identified in the award or agreement. If you can't distinctly identify overtime amounts, all the hours actually worked are included in the employee's ordinary hours of work in the award or agreement. These rules also apply if the payments are calculated as an annualised or lump sum component of a total salary package. Overtime payments must be clearly identifiable. Otherwise, all hours worked are considered ordinary hours of work. How you work out OTE might be impacted if your employee has a salary sacrifice arrangement in place. You may have additional super obligations under an industrial instrument External Link  (award or agreement) to pay super on amounts that are not OTE. Table 9: Overtime Payment Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Overtime External Link payments – provided the employee's ordinary hours of work are clearly identified such as: beyond their ordinary hours of work outside the agreed number of hours outside the spread of ordinary hours (the times of the day ordinary hours can be worked) Yes No Annual leave loading referrable to the lost opportunity to work overtime Yes No Time off in lieu (TOIL) External Link – cash out of TOIL in service For unused TOIL on termination, see termination payments Yes No On call allowance for hours outside ordinary hours of work Yes No Call back allowance Yes No Bonuses and commissions paid solely for work performed entirely outside ordinary hours Yes No   Example: overtime identified in an award or agreement Pierre is employed under an award to work 38 ordinary hours per week with additional reasonable overtime. However, Pierre’s roster includes shifts with planned overtime. He works a total of 48 hours per week including 10 hours of overtime paid at overtime rates. The payment to Pierre for his 38 ordinary hours of work is OTE. The 10 hours of overtime payments are not OTE. The payment for all 48 hours is salary or wages. End of example Bonuses and commissions How you work out OTE might be impacted if your employee has a salary sacrifice arrangement in place. You may have additional super obligations under an industrial instrument External Link  (award or agreement) to pay super on amounts that are not OTE. Table 10: Bonuses and commissions Payment Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Commission payments External Link Yes Yes Commission solely for work performed entirely outside ordinary hours Yes No Performance bonus Yes Yes Christmas bonus Yes Yes Bonus labelled as ex gratia but in respect of ordinary hours work Yes Yes Sign-on bonus for new employees Yes Yes Referral bonus Yes Yes Return to work bonus after parental leave Yes Yes Bonus solely for work performed entirely outside ordinary hours Yes No   Example: bonus paid in respect of overtime Jessie is in IT, on an above award annual salary which includes payment for reasonable additional hours. His ordinary hours are Monday to Friday. As part of a project, Jessie works on Sunday. As a reward for meeting a project milestone which was entirely due to the work they did on Sunday, members of the team are each paid a $1,000 bonus. As the bonus is being paid in respect of work that was done entirely outside of ordinary hours, the $1,000 is overtime and not OTE. End of example Directors' fees Directors' fees include payments to: the director of a company a person who performs the duties of a director of the company a member of the committee of management of the company, or as a person who performs the duties of such a member if the company is not incorporated. Directors’ fees may include payment to cover travelling costs, costs associated with attending meetings and other expenses incurred in the position of a company director. Table 11: Directors' fees Payment Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Remuneration you pay to a working director Yes Yes Remuneration you pay to a non-working director Yes Yes Lump sum payments Payments in arrears (lump sum E) Lump sum E refers to back pay or an arrears payment External Link that was payable more than 12 months before the payment was made. Regardless of the period to which the payment relates, OTE is worked out on the actual component of pay that is being paid. For example, if the back pay or arrears payment includes ordinary hours, higher duties allowances, paid annual leave and overtime, then all but the overtime is OTE. Return to work payments (lump sum W) How you work out OTE might be impacted if your employee has a salary sacrifice arrangement in place. You may have additional super obligations under an industrial instrument External Link  (award or agreement) to pay super on amounts that are not OTE. Table 12: Return to work payments (lump sum W) Payment Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Bonus paid to an ex-employee to encourage them to return to the employer Yes Yes Bonus payments made to end industrial action and have employees resume work Yes Yes Bonus paid to an employee who has resigned and is encouraged to withdraw their resignation Yes Yes Termination payments Payments made in consequence of the termination of employment External Link are generally not OTE. How you work out OTE might be impacted if your employee has a salary sacrifice arrangement in place. You may have additional super obligations under an industrial instrument External Link  (award or agreement) to pay super on amounts that are not OTE. Table 13: Termination payments Payment Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Unused leave on termination, including annual leave, annual leave loading and long service leave. This applies regardless of the reason for termination or treatment for tax purposes. Yes No Payment in lieu of notice External Link , for all termination reasons. This applies regardless of the reason for termination or treatment for tax purposes. Yes Yes Unused personal/carers leave on termination, for all termination reasons. This applies regardless of the reason for termination or treatment for tax purposes. Yes No Unused rostered days off (RDOs) and time off in lieu (TOIL) of overtime paid on termination Yes No Other payments in consequence of the termination of employment, such as: a gratuity or golden handshake genuine redundancy External Link or early retirement scheme payments above the tax-free limit severance pay non-genuine redundancy compensation for loss of job compensation for wrongful dismissal invalidity payments other than compensation for personal injury lump sum payments paid due to the death of an employee. No No   Example: termination of employment due to genuine redundancy Unfortunately, Michael's job is no longer required to be performed by anyone. His job is now redundant, and after consulting with Michael, his employer pays him a genuine redundancy on 14 March 2025. It totals $40,000, and comprises: payment of $10,000 in lieu of notice for 4 weeks of wages redundancy payment of $25,000 ex-gratia payment of $5,000. Out of the total payment of $40,000, only the $10,000 payment in lieu of notice is OTE. Michael's employer must pay SG on the payment in lieu of notice, and works out the SG as follows: $10,000 × 11.5% = $1,150. End of example Salary sacrifice Generally, when an employee has a salary sacrifice arrangement in place, you need to consider how the salary that is being sacrificed is taken into account when determining the employee's OTE and salary and wages under the SGAA. Table 14: Salary sacrifice Sacrificed amounts Salary and wages OTE (for the purposes of SGAA) Salary sacrificed to superannuation – where the salary that is sacrificed would otherwise be OTE if it was instead paid to the employee Yes Yes Salary sacrificed to superannuation – where the salary that is sacrificed would not otherwise be OTE if it was instead paid to the employee, such as paid parental leave or overtime Yes No Salary sacrificed to other employee benefits – including amounts that are fringe benefits and exempt fringe benefits No No Superannuation on annual leave loading Annual leave loading is included in ordinary time earnings (OTE) unless it is clearly linked to lost overtime. Super for long-distance drivers How to calculate super guarantee (SG) and ordinary time earnings for long-distance drivers. Payments that are not ordinary time earnings Check which payments you make to an employee aren't included in their ordinary time earnings (OTE) for super guarantee. QC 33860 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).