Fixing BAS mistakes or making adjustments | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Fixing BAS mistakes or making adjustments What to do if you need to fix a mistake in a previously lodged BAS or make an adjustment for a change. Last updated 19 July 2023 Print or Download What are mistakes or adjustments Correcting a mistake made in an earlier business activity statement (BAS) is different to making an adjustment: An error or mistake relates to an amount that was incorrect at the time of lodgment. An adjustment relates to a reported sale or purchase that was correct at the time of lodgment, but something occurred later that changed the amount of reported GST. When to fix a mistake Examples of mistakes you may have made in a previously lodged BAS include: clerical or transposition errors classifying a GST-free sale or purchase as taxable classifying a taxable sale or purchase as GST-free double counting some of your purchases. How to fix a mistake You can fix a mistake in your next BAS or revise the original BAS. Conditions apply depending on whether it's a credit error or debit error . Many mistakes relating to GST and fuel tax credits can be corrected in your next BAS. If you can't correct your mistake in your next BAS, you will need to lodge a revision. Corrections that impact PAYG withholding If you are an employer and you need to fix your STP reporting, you may also identify that the PAYG withholding you reported to us for a previous tax period was too high or too low. To correct this, you can either: Revise an earlier activity statement for the earlier tax period to show the correct amount. For large withholders, follow the existing process for notifying us of changes to your PAYG withholding liability in an earlier tax period. Carry forward the correction to your reported PAYG withholding for the current tax period, subject to some limits. See Correcting information reported through STP . When to make an adjustment When you become aware of the need for an adjustment, you generally report it in the activity statement for your current reporting period. Examples of when to make an adjustment include where: the price of a sale or purchase changes goods are returned and the sale is cancelled. For fuel tax credits, see Making adjustments and correcting errors . How to lodge your changes You can lodge your changes online or by paper form: Businesses can use Online services for business Standard Business Reporting (SBR)-enabled software Sole traders can use Online services for business Standard Business Reporting (SBR)-enabled software Online services for individuals (you will need a myGov account linked to the ATO). If you lodge by paper and need a revision form, you can phone us on 13 28 66 . Your registered tax or BAS agent External Link can assist via Online services for agents . QC 43304 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).