Fringe benefits tax (FBT) | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Fringe benefits tax (FBT) How employers, not-for-profits and government organisations calculate, manage and report fringe benefits tax. How fringe benefits tax works An overview of FBT. Find out how FBT applies, what you need to do as an employer, and what deductions you can claim. Types of fringe benefits Find out which benefits are subject to fringe benefits tax (FBT) and how to work out the taxable value of the benefits. Exemptions, concessions and other ways to reduce FBT Find out what FBT exemptions and concessions you can use. Reduce your FBT through alternatives such as cash bonuses. FBT concessions for not-for-profit organisations How benefits provided to employees of not-for-profit organisations are treated for fringe benefits tax (FBT) purposes. Salary sacrificing How salary sacrificing works for employers, including effective arrangements and what can be salary sacrificed. Calculating your FBT Work out the FBT to pay, including applying the type 1 or type 2 gross-up rate and the FBT rate. FBT registration, lodgment, payment and reporting Registering for FBT, keeping records, getting employee declarations, lodging your FBT return and paying FBT. Government organisations and FBT How to manage FBT in government organisations. State and territory governments can devolve FBT to departmental level. QC 71121 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).