How we can help | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search How we can help Video tips, online answers to your questions and a range of phone services to help you meet your GST obligations. Last updated 13 July 2023 Print or Download Find out about the GST issues registers, how to contact us and our video tips to help you meet your GST obligations. Answering your questions Online Find out more about tax time essentials, learning resources, tools and services to support your small business . Phone us 13 28 66 – available between 8:00 am and 6:00 pm, Monday to Friday. 13 72 26 – our direct self-help service is available 24 hours a day. If you want to elect to report your GST annually, press 1 for lodgment, then 2 to elect GST annual reporting. If you would like someone else to phone us on your behalf, such as a registered tax agent, family member or friend, make sure they are recorded with us as authorised to act for you. Write to us Address your GST enquiries to: Australian Taxation Office PO Box 3524 ALBURY NSW 2640 Cancelling your registration To cancel your GST registration, post your registration cancellation form to the relevant address below: For VIC, SA, WA and TAS Australian Taxation Office, Registrations VIC/SA/WA/TAS PO Box 3373 ALBURY NSW 2640 For NSW, QLD, NT and ACT Australian Taxation Office, Registrations NSW/QLD/NT/ACT PO Box 3373 PENRITH NSW 2740 Other ways to contact us See other ways to contact us for help with tax and super. GST video tips and examples Our short GST videos offer simple, practical tips to help you manage GST in your business. Videos can be found on atoTV External Link and cover the following topics: Identity theft Getting your GST right When to register for GST How to complete your BAS Lodging your BAS on time How to keep your records for GST How to stay in control of your business Tax evasion and crime Data matching. GST issues registers For more information and guidance, see: GST issues registers – for issues from the GST issues registers that are not public rulings. Public rulings – for issues from the GST issues registers that are public rulings. Find out about the GST issues registers, how to contact us and our video tips to help you meet your GST obligations. QC 22442 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).