How GST works | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search How GST works Explains how GST works and what you need to do to meet your GST obligations. Last updated 22 June 2023 Print or Download How GST works Goods and services tax (GST) is a broad-based tax of 10% on most goods, services and other items sold or consumed in Australia. Some things don’t have GST included, these are called GST-free sales . You can: use the GST calculator External Link on ASIC's MoneySmart website to calculate GST and work out how much GST is included in a sale. What registered businesses do Generally, businesses and other organisations registered for GST will: include GST in the price they charge for their goods and services claim credits for the GST included in the price of goods and services they buy for their business. Watch Media: How GST works https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=nixx79jdgigzjq ( Duration: 0:35) What you need to do for GST If you run a business or other enterprise and have a GST turnover of $75,000 or more ($150,000 or more for non-profit organisations), or you provide taxi travel (including ride-sourcing ) – you need to: register for GST work out whether your sales are taxable (that is, subject to GST, and not exempted because they are GST-free or input-taxed) and include GST in the price of your taxable sales issue tax invoices for your taxable sales and obtain tax invoices for your business purchases claim GST credits for GST included in the price of your business purchases account for GST on either a cash or non-cash basis and put aside the GST you collected so you can pay it to us when due lodge activity statements or annual returns to report your sales and purchases, and pay GST to us or receive a GST refund. You can use the GST calculator External Link on ASIC's MoneySmart website to calculate GST and work out how much GST is included in a sale. Explains how GST works and what you need to do to meet your GST obligations. QC 22411 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).