How to lodge your BAS | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search How to lodge your BAS How to lodge your business activity statements (BAS) to report and pay your taxes, including GST and PAYG. Last updated 24 April 2026 Print or Download What your BAS is If you are a business registered for GST, you need to lodge a business activity statement (BAS). Your BAS will help you report and pay your: goods and services tax (GST) pay as you go (PAYG) instalments PAYG withholding tax other taxes. When you register for an Australian business number (ABN) and GST, we'll automatically send you a BAS when it is time to lodge. Media: BAS and Instalment Notices https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bi9or7orzuap9i ( Duration: 1:39) Lodgment options It's important to lodge your BAS and pay in full any amounts owed by the due date. Lodge online Most businesses that lodge their own BAS prepare and lodge online. Lodging your BAS electronically is quick, easy and secure, and means you: can lodge at a time that's convenient to you may receive an additional 2 weeks to lodge and pay your BAS – see our two-week deferral offer may get a faster refund get help to avoid mistakes can review your BAS before lodging and check that the amount calculated equals what you expect to pay or receive. How to lodge online There are several options to lodge online, including: Online services for individuals and sole traders (accessed through myGov) – allows you to manage your tax and super in one place. Online services for business – a secure ATO website used to manage your business tax affairs online. SBR-enabled software – allows secure online lodgment directly from financial, accounting or payroll software, and often integrated with business software that's tailored to specific industries. Media: Lodge your BAS online video 2 http://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bd1bdiunqju491 External Link ( Duration: 00:33) For more information, refer to Two week lodgment concession – terms and conditions . Lodge through your tax or BAS agent A registered tax or BAS agent can lodge, vary, and pay on your behalf through their preferred electronic channel. When you use an agent: they can view BAS and reminder messages sent to you via their online service you can still access your BAS through Online services for business or myGov, even if your agent is managing them on your behalf you may receive extra time to lodge and pay. You can visit the Tax Practitioners Board to find a registered agent External Link . Lodge by mail Mail your original, completed BAS, using the pre-addressed envelope provided in your BAS package. If you make a mistake on your paper BAS, you can use white-out to make changes. If you misplace the pre-addressed envelope, send your BAS to: AUSTRALIAN TAXATION OFFICE LOCKED BAG 1936 ALBURY NSW 1936 If you've lost or haven't received your paper BAS, you can get a copy by phoning us on 13 28 66 . You can also consider lodging online so you don't have to wait. How to pay For more information, you can refer to: Lodging and paying your BAS If you are finding it hard to lodge and pay on time Support in difficult times . Nothing to report ('nil' BAS) Even if you have nothing to report for the period, you still need to lodge your BAS as 'nil' by the due date. You can lodge your 'nil' BAS: online select 'Prepare', then 'Prepare as nil' on your BAS by phone on 13 72 26 this is an automated service and you can call anytime (24 hours a day, 7 days a week) you'll need to have your tax file number (TFN) or Australian business number (ABN), and your BAS document ID number on hand to use this service. You can find your ABN and BAS document ID at the top right-hand corner of your BAS. you can use this service for current or overdue statements, and you can lodge up to three statements at a time. You can't lodge by phone: if you're lodging an annual GST return (BAS P) if you report GST by instalments if you want to vary a statement to 'nil' for statements with a pre-printed amount or rate at labels F1 , G21 , T2 , T7 or 7A , that is greater than zero. Where's my BAS? How you lodge your BAS determines how you receive statements. For example, if you lodge through Online services for business, your next statement will be available there. If you use our online services, we'll notify you by email 21 days before the due date when your BAS is available – so make sure your contact details are up to date . Once you lodge online, your BAS will be sent electronically. QC 33692 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).