Income and deductions for business | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Income and deductions for business As a business owner, you can use this information to help work out your business income and deductions for tax purposes. Overview of business income and deductions An overview of your responsibilities to keep accurate records and pay the right amount of tax. Assessable income Understand which income from carrying on your business is assessable for income tax purposes. Business deductions Understand which business expenses can be claimed as tax deductions. Business offsets and rebates Includes concessions for small business CGT, primary producers, special professionals and loss carry back tax offsets. Work out taxable income Calculate your business's taxable income using a calculation of business profit or loss and applying adjustments. Accounting for trading stock Explains what trading stock is and that livestock is also trading stock. Registered emissions units Income tax treatment of registered emissions units, and basic principles of how an REU is taxed. Crypto assets and business Work out the tax treatment of crypto assets in business and how tax applies to crypto mining activities. Business losses How to carry forward business losses or offset them against other income. Professional firms Detailed information about income and deductions for professional firms. Service entities Detailed information about income and deductions for service entities. QC 33872 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).