Input-taxed sales | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Input-taxed sales Check which sales are considered as input-taxed sales, which you don’t include GST in the price or claim GST credits. Last updated 16 June 2015 Print or Download Input-taxed sales are sales of goods and services that don't include GST in the price. You can't claim GST credits for the GST included in the price of your 'inputs'. The most common input-taxed sales are financial supplies (such as lending money or the provision of credit for a fee) and selling or renting out residential premises. Follow the links below for more information about: Financial supplies Residential premises See also Claiming GST credits GST definitions Financial supplies, such as lending money and renting out residential premises are transactions we call input-taxed sales. You don't include GST in the price of input-taxed sales and you can't claim GST credits for the GST included in the price of purchases you needed to make your input-taxed sales. Residential premises Work out if your existing or new residential premises include GST when you're selling or renting. Financial supplies All financial supplies are input-taxed sales and do not have GST in their price and GST credits can't be claimed. QC 22425 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).