Deductions for motor vehicle expenses | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Deductions for motor vehicle expenses As a business owner, you can claim a tax deduction for expenses for motor vehicles used in running your business. Last updated 27 May 2026 Print or Download Media: Claiming deductions – Motor vehicle expenses https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bi9or7od7bf956 External Link ( Duration: 1:18) For a summary of this content in poster format, see Motor vehicle expenses (PDF, 269KB) This link will download a file . Types of vehicles Cars (for income tax purposes) are defined as motor vehicles (including 4-wheel drives) designed to carry both: a load less than one tonne fewer than 9 passengers. Other vehicles include: motorcycles vehicles designed to carry either one tonne or more (such as a utility truck or panel van) 9 passengers or more (such as a minivan). The motor vehicle must be owned, leased or under a hire-purchase agreement. If you operate your business as a company or trust, you can also claim for motor vehicles used by your employees or their associate as part of their employment. Expenses you can claim You can claim: fuel and oil repairs and servicing interest on a motor vehicle loan lease payments insurance cover premiums registration depreciation (decline in value). Make sure you use the correct calculation method when claiming motor vehicle expenses. Using the wrong method can lead to incorrect claims. For more information, see Motor vehicle expense calculation methods . Separate private from business use If you use a motor vehicle for both business and private use, you must be able to correctly identify and justify the percentage that you are claiming as business use. The percentage that is for private use isn't claimable and fringe benefits tax may apply. This is an area where we often see errors made. For more information, see Cars and FBT . It is important to keep records. You can use a logbook or diary to record private versus business travel. For more information, see Motor vehicle expense records you need to keep . Travelling between your home and your place of business is considered private use, unless you are a home-based business and your trip was for business purposes. For more information, see Motor vehicle expenses for a home-based business . You can also refer to Motor vehicles used by shareholders of private companies . Car limit There is a limit on the cost you can use to work out the depreciation of passenger vehicles (except motorcycles or similar vehicles) designed to carry a load of less than one tonne and fewer than 9 passengers. Motor vehicle expense calculation methods Work out how to claim motor vehicle expenses, depending on your business structure and the type of vehicle. Cents per kilometre method Check how sole traders and some partnerships can use the cents per kilometre method for car-related business expenses. Logbook method Sole traders and some partnerships can use the logbook method when claiming expenses for a car. Actual cost method The actual cost method may be the only method you can use to claim your business's motor vehicle expenses. Calculating car expenses prior to 1 July 2015 For 2014–15 and earlier income years, there are four different methods for claiming work-related car expenses. Motor vehicle expenses for a home-based business Information on motor vehicle expenses for a home-based business. Motor vehicles used by your employees How to claim expenses when your employees use a vehicle as part of running the business. Motor vehicles used by shareholders Information for private companies providing vehicles to a shareholder or their associate (not as an employee). Taxi industry assistance payments and passenger levies Tax obligations for taxi, hire car and limousine licence for industry assistance payments and passenger movement levies. Motor vehicle expense records you need to keep The records you need to keep for your business's motor vehicle expenses depend on how you calculate your claim. QC 33720 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).