Quarterly super payment due dates | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Quarterly super payment due dates An employee's fund must receive their super payments on or before the quarterly super due dates. Last updated 25 February 2026 Print or Download Info Alert This information is only for employee earnings paid up to 30 June 2026. For employee earnings paid from 1 July 2026, the new Payday Super rules apply. See What payments are qualifying earnings . Overview You must pay super for eligible employees. To avoid the super guarantee charge (SGC), payments must be received by the employee's fund on or before the quarterly super due dates. Payments must be made at least 4 times a year. This applies from the day employees start working for you. Payment due dates occur quarterly. Quarterly super payment due dates Quarter Period Payment due date 1 1 July – 30 September 28 October 2 1 October – 31 December 28 January 3 1 January – 31 March 28 April 4 1 April – 30 June 28 July When a super due date falls on a weekend or public holiday, your contribution must be received by the fund on or before the next business day. You can also make payments more frequently than quarterly, for example fortnightly or monthly. If you do, ensure you pay your total super guarantee (SG) contribution for the quarter by the due date. If you have missed the quarterly payment due date or made late super payments , you will need to lodge a SGC statement and pay the SGC to us. The missed or late super payments are no longer tax deductible. Clearing houses A clearing house distributes super contributions to your employees' funds on your behalf. SG payments made to a commercial clearing house before the SG due date may not reach the super fund until after the due date. Your employee's super contribution is only considered 'paid' on the date it's received by the super fund. Not the date it's received by the clearing house. Note: It's important that you leave enough time for your SG payments to reach the super fund and allow for their processing timeframes. However, if you use the ATO's Small Business Superannuation Clearing House , payments may be considered 'paid' on the date they're received. Check the processing timeframes required by your clearing house to ensure your payments will be processed before the payment due dates. Due date considerations Some super funds, awards and contracts require you to pay super more regularly than quarterly. Meeting the SG contribution payment dates does not ensure compliance with other super funds, awards and contracts. You should check the contractual obligations you have with your super fund, award or contract to ensure super contributions are paid on time. An employee's fund must receive their super payments on or before the quarterly super due dates. QC 33753 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).