Salary sacrificing | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Salary sacrificing How salary sacrificing works for employers, including effective arrangements and what can be salary sacrificed. Last updated 24 April 2026 Print or Download What is salary sacrificing? Salary sacrificing is a formal arrangement between you (the employer) and your employee. Your employee agrees to forgo part of their salary or wages in return for benefits of a similar value, such as more super or a car. Salary sacrificing is sometimes called salary packaging. Under an effective salary sacrifice arrangement: the employee pays less income tax on their reduced salary or wages you, as the employer, may have to pay fringe benefits tax (FBT) on the fringe benefits you provide salary-sacrificed super contributions are classified as employer super contributions that are taxed in the super fund (instead of being employee super contributions from after-tax income). Effective salary sacrifice arrangement To reduce an employee's assessable income through salary sacrificing, the arrangement must be considered 'effective'. Otherwise, the benefits are treated as assessable income received by the employee. To have an effective salary sacrifice arrangement, you should: enter the arrangement before your employee performs the work have an agreement between you and your employee (usually in writing) make sure the employee can't access the sacrificed salary. If you have an effective salary sacrifice arrangement with your employee, there may be implications for: your FBT obligations the employee's assessable income GST credits you can claim the payment of employee contributions reporting PAYG withholding through Single Touch Payroll or on your employee’s payment summary. For more information on the implications of an effective salary sacrificing arrangement for employers, see FBT Guide: 1.8 Salary sacrifice . Benefits you can salary sacrifice You can provide any type of benefit to your employee through a salary sacrifice arrangement. Benefits are generally treated as fringe benefits, exempt benefits, or employer super contributions. Fringe benefits Some benefits are fringe benefits. You may have to pay FBT on the value of these benefits provided to your employee. Common fringe benefits include: cars goods shares. Exempt benefits You don't pay FBT on exempt benefits, such as the following work-related items : a portable electronic device computer software protective clothing a tool of trade. The item must be primarily for work-related use. Generally you can get the exemption for only one item with a similar function per FBT year (for example, one portable electronic device), unless you are employed in a small business. Superannuation Salary sacrificed super contributions under an effective salary sacrifice arrangement are considered employer contributions. These are not fringe benefits if the contributions are made to a complying super fund. Salary sacrificed super contributions don't: reduce the ordinary time earnings or qualifying earnings that you use to calculate your employee's super entitlement count towards the super guarantee contributions that you need to make for your employee. This means the salary sacrificed super contributions are additional to the super you would have paid for your employee without the arrangement. Any super contributions made for the benefit of an associate, such as the employee's partner, are treated as a fringe benefit. The same applies to any contributions paid to a non-complying super fund. For more information about salary sacrifice and the tax implications for employers, see: FBT Guide: 1.8 Salary sacrifice Taxation Ruling TR 2001/10 Income tax: fringe benefits tax and superannuation guarantee: salary sacrifice arrangements Reporting salary sacrifice benefits You may have to report certain reportable fringe benefits through Single Touch Payroll or on your employee’s payment summary.   QC 71171 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).