FBT concessions for not-for-profit organisations | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search FBT concessions for not-for-profit organisations How benefits provided to employees of not-for-profit organisations are treated for fringe benefits tax (FBT) purposes. Overview: FBT concessions for not-for-profits Find out how FBT concessions apply for not-for-profit organisations, and which concessions you may be eligible for. FBT-exempt organisations Work out if your not-for-profit organisation is entitled to an FBT exemption and check the exemption capping threshold. FBT rebatable employers Work out if your not-for-profit organisation is entitled to the FBT rebate and check the rebate capping threshold. FBT and religious institutions Find out about exempt benefits for religious practitioners, live-in carers and domestic employees. FBT and not-for-profit organisations that provide care Work out if your not-for-profit organisation is entitled to FBT concessions for live-in residential carers. Volunteers and contractors and FBT Confirm that FBT does not apply to benefits or reimbursement you provide to your volunteers and contractors. QC 71164 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).