Calculating your FBT | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Calculating your FBT Work out the FBT to pay, including applying the type 1 or type 2 gross-up rate and the FBT rate. Last updated 12 January 2023 Print or Download What you need to do As an employer, you must self-assess the amount of fringe benefits tax (FBT) you have to pay. To work out how much FBT you have to pay, you 'gross-up' the taxable value of the benefits you've provided. This reflects the gross salary your employees would have to earn, at the highest marginal tax rate (including Medicare levy), to buy the benefits themselves. The FBT you owe is the grossed-up amount multiplied by the FBT rate. You pay this amount to us by the date your FBT return is due, which is generally 21 May. How to calculate FBT – business and government Use the steps below if you are a: business government organisation not-for-profit organisation that is not exempt from FBT and not eligible for the FBT rebate . Step 1: Work out the taxable value of each fringe benefit How you work out the taxable value of a fringe benefit varies according to the type of benefit . If the cost of the fringe benefit included GST, include this in the taxable value. If you provided car fringe benefits, you can use the FBT car calculator to work out the taxable value of those benefits. FBT car calculator Step 2: Add up fringe benefits from step 1 that included GST These are fringe benefits for which you can claim a GST credit. Include both reportable and any non-reportable benefits. Step 3: Multiply the step 2 amount by the higher gross-up rate The higher (type 1) gross-up rate is 2.0802. You can claim GST credits for these fringe benefits. The higher rate takes this into account. This rate applies for all FBT years since the FBT year ending 31 March 2019. For gross-up rates in earlier years, see Fringe benefits tax – historical rates and thresholds . Step 4: Add up the fringe benefits from step 1 that did not include GST These are benefits that were either GST-free or input taxed. Include both reportable and any non-reportable benefits. Step 5: Multiply the step 4 amount by the lower gross-up rate The lower (type 2) gross-up rate is 1.8868. This rate applies for all FBT years since the FBT year ending 31 March 2019. For gross-up rates in earlier years, see Fringe benefits tax – historical rates and thresholds . Step 6: Add up the amounts from steps 3 and 5 This is your total fringe benefits taxable amount. Step 7: Multiply the step 6 amount by the FBT rate The FBT rate is 47%. This rate applies for all FBT years since the FBT year ending 31 March 2019. For rates in earlier years, see Fringe benefits tax – historical rates and thresholds . The amount you have worked out is the total FBT amount you have to pay when you lodge your FBT return . Start of example Example: calculating how much FBT you have to pay MantCo has 2 employees, Marta and Anthony. Using steps 1–7 above, MantCo calculates its FBT liability as follows. MantCo works out the taxable value of the fringe benefits it provided to its employees: A car fringe benefit for Marta with a taxable value of $7,700, including GST. A car fringe benefit for Anthony with a taxable value of $6,600, including GST. School fees for Anthony's daughter with a taxable value of $6,000. The school fees are GST-free. Restaurant meals for both Marta and Anthony, with a taxable value of $2,200, including GST. Meals are not reportable benefits, so MantCo does not need to allocate the taxable value of the meals to the individual employees.   The total taxable value of the fringe benefits that included GST is: $7,700 (car) + $6,600 (car) + $2,200 (meals) = $16,500. MantCo uses the type 1 rate to gross up the fringe benefits that included GST: $16,500 × 2.0802 = $34,323 (rounded to the nearest dollar). The total taxable value of the fringe benefits that did not include GST is: $6,000 (school fees). MantCo uses the type 2 rate to gross up the fringe benefits that did not include GST: $6,000 × 1.8868 = $11,321 (rounded to the nearest dollar). The total fringe benefits taxable amount is: $34,323 + $11,321 = $45,644 MantCo uses the FBT rate to calculate the total FBT it must pay: $45,644 × 47% = $21,452.68. End of example How to calculate FBT – for FBT-exempt and rebatable not-for-profit organisations There are additional steps in the FBT calculation if you are a not-for-profit organisation that is exempt from FBT or eligible for the FBT rebate . This is because the benefits you provide to your employees are exempt or rebatable, up to a capping threshold for each employee. Use the calculator to work out the FBT payable for the fringe benefits you provide to each of your employees. Not-for-profit FBT calculator FBT-exempt employers – calculate FBT manually For FBT-exempt employers, fringe benefits you provide to an employee are exempt from FBT, up to a capping threshold. Any fringe benefits in excess of the capping threshold do not qualify for this exemption. To manually calculate your FBT exempt and non-exempt amounts, see FBT guide: 6.10 Calculating the FBT exemption . Rebatable employers – calculate FBT manually For rebatable employers, you apply a rebate to the grossed-up value of fringe benefits you provide to an employee, up to a capping threshold. Any fringe benefits in excess of the capping threshold do not qualify for the rebate. To manually calculate your FBT amounts and rebate, see FBT guide: 6.11 Calculating the FBT rebate . Work out the FBT to pay, including applying the type 1 or type 2 gross-up rate and the FBT rate. QC 71172 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).