STP and activity statements | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search STP and activity statements How we use Single Touch Payroll (STP) data to simplify employer reporting obligations. Last updated 15 August 2025 Print or Download Using STP data to prefill PAYG withholding in activity statements Employers report pay as you go (PAYG) withholding via STP. We use that same data to help prepare activity statements – enabling employers to ‘tell us once’. PAYG withholding labels W1 and W2 will be pre-filled in ATO online services using the information reported through STP. For more information, see ATO PAYG withholding pre-fill for activity statements . Activity statement lodgment reminders Employers who don't lodge their activity statements on time may receive a lodgment reminder from us. For more information, see Lodgment reminders . On-demand activity statement lodgment report for agents Agents acting on behalf of employers will be able to access an updated on-demand activity statement lodgment report to see: which of their clients have been issued a reminder the proposed next action and timing. ATO PAYG withholding pre-fill for activity statements From July 2023, we'll use your STP reports to help prepare your electronic activity statements in ATO online services. Lodgment reminders We send reminders if you haven't lodged your activity statement on time. QC 71218 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).