PAYG withholding annual reports | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search PAYG withholding annual reports You must lodge PAYG withholding annual reports at the end of each financial year. Last updated 11 June 2025 Print or Download About annual reports At the end of each financial year you must lodge a PAYG withholding annual report for all payments not reported and finalised through Single Touch Payroll (STP). The report must include: all non-STP reported payments you made to payees during the financial year the amounts you withheld from those payments. When to lodge Lodge your PAYG withholding payment summary annual report as soon as you provide payment summaries to your employees. This makes it easier for them to lodge their tax returns. We use the information you provide to pre-fill their tax returns. The pre-filling service is available to: people who prepare their tax returns online tax agents. You may have to lodge more than one annual report type. This table shows what payments you need to report on and when they are required to be lodged with us. Payments you need to report on What to report Annual report type Report by Wages, salaries and other work-related payments you paid PAYG payment summary annual report You can lodge online using our Online services for business. 14 August Payments to and amounts withheld from businesses that did not quote their ABN to you PAYG withholding where ABN not quoted – annual report (NAT 3448) You can lodge online using the Online services for business Secure mail option. By 31 October each year Interest, dividend and royalty payments to non-residents, and amounts withheld from those payments PAYG withholding from interest, dividend and royalty payments paid to non-residents – annual report (NAT 7187) You can lodge online using the Online services for business Secure mail option.   Payments to foreign residents, and amounts withheld from those payments PAYG withholding annual report – payments to foreign residents (NAT 12413) Information about payments you made and amounts withheld from an investment where a payee did not quote their TFN (or in some cases, their ABN) Annual Investment Income Report (AIIR) Information and amounts withheld from super payments paid to a temporary resident, permanently departing Australia Departing Australia superannuation payment – withholding and reporting Information about payments you made and amounts withheld from natural resource payments to foreign residents Natural resource payments Contractor payments These are lodged using the Taxable payments annual report . 28 August   How to lodge your payment summary annual report Information about how to lodge your pay as you go (PAYG) withholding annual reports online. QC 27086 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).