Single Touch Payroll for employees | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Single Touch Payroll for employees Your year-to-date tax and super information is available in ATO online services (accessed through myGov). Last updated 1 October 2024 Print or Download If your employer reports through Single Touch Payroll (STP), they will send us your tax and super information each time they pay you. You’ll still be paid the same way – however, there will be some changes for you. New employees may now have the option to complete some of their employee commencement forms online. Find out about: What STP means for employees Setting up your myGov account Employee pre-fill information New employees Your year-to-date tax and super information is available in ATO online services (accessed through myGov). What STP means for employees If your employer reports through STP, you can see your year-to-date tax and super information in ATO online services. Setting up your myGov account Employees can set up a myGov account and link to the ATO to access their tax and super information. Accessing your income statement online How to access your income statement online when your employer uses Single Touch Payroll. Employee pre-fill information If your employer reports through STP, and your income tax return is not pre-filled here is some information what to do. New employees New employees can complete some of their employee commencement forms online, through ATO online services. QC 54706 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).