Due dates for lodging and paying your BAS | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Due dates for lodging and paying your BAS The due date for lodging and paying is displayed on your business activity statement (BAS). Last updated 24 February 2025 Print or Download Lodging and paying your BAS You have several options for lodging your business activity statement (BAS) . Lodging electronically is quick, easy and secure. Most businesses that lodge their own BAS prepare and lodge online. A registered tax or BAS agent can also help you lodge. You must pay your BAS in full and on time to avoid paying interest . For a full list of payment options, see How to pay . The quickest and easiest ways to pay your BAS are: BPAY credit card through our online services . Fees may apply to card payments . We also have other payment options available. Your unique payment reference number (PRN) is required for most payment options. You can also voluntarily make early payments to offset your future BAS liability using your PRN and any of the available payment methods. If the due date is on a weekend or public holiday, you have until the next business day to lodge and pay. If you can't lodge or pay in full and on time , contact us before the due date. In the event of a natural disaster , you may be eligible to receive extra time to lodge and pay your BAS. GST reporting cycles Your GST reporting and payment cycle will be one of the following. Quarterly – if your GST turnover is less than $20 million – and we have not told you that you must report monthly. Monthly – if your GST turnover is $20 million or more – or you choose to report GST monthly. Annually – if you are voluntarily registered for GST and your GST turnover is under $75,000 ($150,000 for not-for-profit bodies). You can set calendar reminders on your phone for lodgment key dates, by using the features in the ATO app . For guidance on preparing and lodging your BAS, see BAS and GST tips . Quarterly reporting If your GST turnover is less than $20 million and we haven't told you to report GST monthly, you can report and pay GST quarterly . Due date for each quarter Quarter Due date 1. July, August and September 28 October 2. October, November and December 28 February 3. January, February and March 28 April 4. April, May and June 28 July If you lodge online, you may be eligible for an extra 2 weeks to lodge and pay your quarterly BAS . You may also get extra time if you lodge through a registered tax or BAS agent. A later lodgment and payment due date does not apply for quarter 2 because the due date already includes a one-month extension. Monthly reporting The due date to lodge and pay your monthly BAS is the 21st day of the month following the end of the taxable period. For example, a July monthly BAS is due on 21 August. If your GST turnover is $20 million or more, you must report and pay GST monthly and lodge your BAS online. If your GST turnover is less than $20 million, you can also choose to lodge monthly. Benefits can include: smaller, more manageable payments – improving your cash flow and making it easier to keep your payments on track better alignment with other business processes, making it easier to keep your record keeping up to date. We may direct you to move to monthly reporting if you’re not meeting your GST obligations. Find out more about quarterly to monthly GST reporting . From December 2024, schools and associated bodies need to lodge their December BAS by 21 January. Annual reporting If you are voluntarily registered for GST and your turnover is under $75,000 (or $150,000 for not-for-profit bodies), you can elect to report and pay GST annually . The due date to lodge and pay your annual GST return is 31 October. If you aren't required to lodge a tax return then, the due date is 28 February following the annual tax period. If you use a registered tax or BAS agent, different dates may apply. Changing your reporting and payment cycle Depending on your circumstances, you may be able to change how often you lodge and pay. If you want to change your cycle: early in the lodgment period (for example, in the first month of the quarter or at the beginning of the financial year), you can generally start the new cycle straight away later in the lodgment period, the new cycle will take effect from the start of the next quarter or year. If you’re a sole trader, you will need to phone us or apply in writing. Speak with your tax professional if you need help. Otherwise, you (unless you're a sole trader), or your registered tax or BAS agent, can request a change to your reporting and payment cycle through Online services for business, or Online services for agents, by: going into your business' profile (or your client's profile if you're an agent) selecting tax registration and selecting Update selecting the relevant subject from the topic list completing the mandatory fields. If you don't have access to our online services, you can also apply in writing, giving detailed reasons to support the request, and send it to: AUSTRALIAN TAXATION OFFICE PO BOX 3373 PENRITH NSW 2740 You may be ineligible to change your reporting and payment cycle if you have changed your cycle within the last 12 months. QC 33695 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).