GST branches | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search GST branches GST branch is formed when a business entity separately registers its branch to suit the arrangements of an organisation. Last updated 17 March 2017 Print or Download A GST branch is formed when a business entity separately registers its branch to suit the structural, management and accounting arrangements of the organisation. When an entity registers a branch for GST purposes, the entity is called the 'parent entity'. A GST branch accounts for GST separately from their parent entity. Find out about: Eligibility How to register a GST branch How to operate a GST branch How to cancel a GST branch registration See also: Effect on GST turnover GST groups Eligibility Generally, a registered entity is able to register its branch as a GST branch if: the branch has an independent system of accounting the branch can be separately identified (either because of its distinctive activities or location) the entity carries on (or intends to carry on) an enterprise through the branch, and the entity is not a member of a GST group. An 'independent system of accounting' is one that can produce the results of each branch without relying on the accounts of the parent entity, another branch or any other entity. It is not simply a cost centre in the parent entity's accounts. Entities can register as many of their branches as they wish, provided they satisfy these requirements. How to register a GST branch To register a GST branch, the parent entity applies using this form: Application to register a GST or PAYG withholding branch We'll notify the parent entity of the branch's unique GST branch registration number. How to operate a GST branch The branch effectively operates as a distinct entity for reporting purposes. This means: GST is payable on taxable sales between GST branches and the parent entity GST is payable on taxable sales between GST branches GST credits can be claimed on both of these transaction types. When a branch makes a sale, purchase or importation, it accounts for any GST payable or GST credits claimable, and for any adjustments relating to the transaction. An activity statement for each GST branch must be lodged for each tax period that applies to the parent entity. The parent entity is responsible for lodgment of the activity statement, but it can be prepared and lodged by either the parent entity or the GST branch. The parent entity must lodge a separate activity statement for any transactions not included in the activity statements of the GST branches. The parent entity is liable for any GST amounts that the branches owe to the ATO. When a GST branch makes a taxable sale, it issues a tax invoice that must show the registration number of the GST branch (which incorporates the ABN of the parent entity). The branch must also show its registration number on any adjustment notes it issues. How to cancel a GST branch registration The parent entity must apply to us to cancel the GST registration of a branch within 21 days if it ceases to carry on an enterprise through the branch. In other circumstances, the parent entity can ask us to cancel the GST branch provided the branch has been registered for 12 months or more. However, we can still cancel the branch's registration if we're satisfied that the parent entity: is not carrying on an enterprise through the branch will not carry on an enterprise through the branch in the following 12 months. In these circumstances we may cancel the registration even without a request being lodged. A branch registration ceases to have effect if the parent entity's GST registration is cancelled. Next step: Cancel GST registration Effect on GST turnover An entity must register for GST when its GST turnover exceeds certain thresholds. When an entity operates with a branch structure, these thresholds apply to the entity as a whole, including the turnover of any branches. A GST branch is formed when a business entity separately registers its branch to suit the structural, management and accounting arrangements of the organisation. QC 16236 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).