Payments that are not ordinary time earnings | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Payments that are not ordinary time earnings Check which payments you make to an employee aren't included in their ordinary time earnings (OTE) for super guarantee. Published 6 August 2025 Print or Download Payments for ordinary hours that are not OTE Generally, payments in respect of ordinary hours are ordinary time earnings (OTE) and must be included when working out how much super guarantee (SG) to pay . However, there are some payments in respect of the ordinary hours of work that aren't OTE. These payments are not included when calculating SG contributions. Fringe benefits and OTE A fringe benefit is like a payment to an employee, but in a different form to salary and wages. Non-cash benefits are not OTE if they are: provided over and above salary and wages sacrificed from salary and wages. These non-cash benefits are excluded salary and wages for SG purposes. However, salary sacrifice contributions to superannuation are added to an employee's OTE if the amount being sacrificed would otherwise be OTE if it was instead paid to the employee. Other workers You may not need to pay SG on payments made in respect of ordinary hours of work in certain circumstances. These include payments made for employees under 18 years old, or for private and domestic workers, where the employee doesn't work more than 30 hours in a week. Make sure you work out if you have to pay super . Reimbursements to employees Reimbursements are payments made to employees for actual expenses already incurred and are not OTE. Example: reimbursement for actual expenses Fernando travels by train on behalf of his employer and pays for the train ticket himself. He provides a receipt to his employer for the $14.50 cost of the train ticket, and the employer reimburses him $14.50. The payment is not OTE or salary and wages, because it's not a reward for Fernando's services. End of example Overpayments to employees If you find that you have overpaid an employee External Link , and the employee is required to repay the overpaid amount to you, the overpaid salary and wages are no longer OTE or salary or wages for SG purposes. If you allow your employee extra time to repay the overpaid amounts, the law treats you as having made a loan to your employee: the loan amount is not subject to SG the loan amount is not a payment subject to withholding a payment in respect of the ordinary hours of work salary or wages reportable in STP no salary sacrifice can be deducted from the loan amount. You must decide if the employee is required to repay the overpaid amount . QC 105313 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).