When to charge GST (and when not to) | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search When to charge GST (and when not to) Explains who has to charge GST, and what taxable sales, GST-free sales and input-taxed sales are. Last updated 23 December 2016 Print or Download If you are registered for GST - or required to be – the goods and services you sell in Australia are taxable unless they are GST-free or input taxed. Non-profit organisations may be entitled to concessions on some transactions. Follow the links below for more information about   Taxable sales GST-free sales Input-taxed sales Grants and sponsorship Insurance settlements See also   GST concessions – Tax basics for non-profit organisations Tax invoices Option to reverse charge in the precious metal industry Explains who has to charge GST, and what taxable sales, GST-free sales and input-taxed sales are. Input-taxed sales Check which sales are considered as input-taxed sales, which you don’t include GST in the price or claim GST credits. Grants and sponsorship Check how to apply GST when supplying a benefit in return for a grant or sponsorship money. Insurance settlements There are circumstances where you do not have to pay GST on an insurance settlement. Taxable sales Find out when your business sales are taxable and you include GST in the price. GST-free sales There are products and services which are GST-free and are exempt from GST. QC 22417 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).