Single Touch Payroll | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Single Touch Payroll Understand how using Single Touch Payroll streamlines employer reporting to us and other government agencies. What STP is Learn how STP works, what happens when you report, and how it affects new employees and activity statement reporting. Expanding Single Touch Payroll (Phase 2) Single Touch Payroll Phase 2 will streamline reporting information about employees to government agencies. News, events and resources Resources to help you understand Single Touch Payroll (STP), such as employer guides, factsheets, and webinars. STP reporting options There are different Single Touch Payroll (STP) reporting options depending on the number and type of your employees. How to report Single Touch Payroll data You can send Single Touch Payroll (STP) data to us in a few ways. Start reporting Checklists, troubleshooting and employer reporting guidelines to help you report through Single Touch Payroll (STP). Concessional reporting Employers who need to transition to Single Touch Payroll reporting may have concessional reporting options. Need more time Depending on your situation, you may be exempt from Single Touch Payroll reporting or able to defer reporting. When STP reporting can cease When Single Touch Payroll (STP) reporting can cease and what to do if you no longer have STP reporting obligations. STP and activity statements How we use Single Touch Payroll (STP) data to simplify employer reporting obligations. Single Touch Payroll for intermediaries Registered agents providing a payroll service and insolvency practitioners need to understand Single Touch Payroll. Single Touch Payroll for employees Your year-to-date tax and super information is available in ATO online services (accessed through myGov). STP employer reporting guidelines Our guidelines help employers understand how to report under Single Touch Payroll Phase 1 and Phase 2. QC 54701 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).