Deductions for business travel expenses | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Deductions for business travel expenses You can claim a tax deduction for expenses you incur travelling for your business. Last updated 27 May 2026 Print or Download Media: Business deductions ­- Travel expenses: Tax basics for small business https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bd1bdiubfw7bqp External Link ( Duration: 1:23) For a summary of this content in poster format, see Travel expenses (PDF, 362KB) This link will download a file . Expenses you can claim As a business owner, the general rule is that you can claim deductions for expenses if you or your employee are travelling for business purposes. Your business can claim a deduction for travel expenses related to your business, whether the travel is taken within a day, overnight, or for many nights. Expenses you can claim include: accommodation airfares car hire fees and the costs you incur (such as fuel, tolls and car parking) when using a hire car for business purposes meals, if you are away overnight train, tram, bus, taxi, or ride-sourcing fares. To claim expenses for overnight travel, you must have a permanent home elsewhere and your business must require you to stay away from home overnight. If you are entitled to goods and services tax (GST) credits, also known as input tax credits, you claim the GST exclusive amount of the expense as a deduction in your income tax return. Expenses you can't claim You can only claim the business portion of business travel expenses. You must exclude any private expenses, such as: a holiday or visit to family or friends that is combined with the business travel expenses associated with you or your employee taking a family member on the trip sightseeing and entertainment souvenirs and gifts travel expenses that arise because you are relocating or living away from home travel undertaken before you started running your business visas, passports or travel insurance. For more information about business motor vehicle expenses and travelling to and from your places of business, see Claiming a tax deduction for motor vehicle expenses . How to claim employee travel expenses If your employees travel for your business, the business must actually pay for the travel expense to be able to claim it as a deduction. The business can pay for the expense by: paying directly for the expense from the business account paying a travel allowance to the employee reimbursing the employee for their expenses. Fringe benefits tax (FBT) may apply if your business pays for or reimburses your employees for their travel expenses. Certain exemptions and concessions may apply to reduce your FBT liability. For example, your business may not have an FBT liability if it reimburses an employee for their travel expenses to attend a work conference, which the employee would have been able to claim as an income tax deduction if you hadn't reimbursed them. You will be liable for FBT if your employee extended their travel for private purposes and you reimburse the employee for these private costs. If your business provides benefits to your employees, you must keep records that show how you calculated the taxable value of the benefits and support any FBT exemptions or concessions you used. You may also need to obtain some records from the employee. If you are the director and shareholder of a private company and the business pays for private portions of your travel expenses, there may be Division 7A implications. There are special rules that set out what happens when both Division 7A and fringe benefits tax may apply. If you pay your employees a travel allowance or a living-away-from-home allowance, there are different considerations. Travel diaries A travel diary is: compulsory for sole traders and partners in a partnership to record overnight business travel expenses highly recommended for everyone else. Sole traders and partners in a partnership If you are a sole trader or a partner in a partnership and you travel for 6 or more consecutive nights, you must keep a travel diary or similar document before your travel ends, or as soon as possible afterwards. In your travel diary, record the detail of each business activity including: what the activity was the date and approximate time the business activity began how long the business activity lasted the name of the place where the business activity occurred. Your travel diary can be in any format as long as it contains sufficient detail to justify what you are claiming. Example: Rebecca's travel diary Rebecca owns a business as a sole trader landscape gardener. She is invited to exhibit at the Chelsea Flower Show in London, UK. This involves 6 days of work representing her business at the show. After the show is finished, Rebecca spends some time sightseeing. Rebecca’s son James joins her on the trip. James is not involved in the business and spends his days exploring London while Rebecca is at the Chelsea Flower Show. As Rebecca is travelling for more than 6 nights, she keeps the below travel diary for May. Rebecca's travel diary entries Saturday 9 May – 10:00 am flight Q13 to London (via Dubai) Sunday 10 May – Arrive London 1.00 pm local time. Bus to hotel in Chelsea 3:00 pm Monday 11 May – Rest day Tuesday 12 May – Chelsea Flower Show set-up day from 9:00 am Wednesday 13 May – Chelsea Flower Show Day 1 Thursday 14 May – Chelsea Flower Show Day 2 Friday 15 May – Chelsea Flower Show Day 3 Saturday 16 May – Chelsea Flower Show Day 4 Sunday 17 May – Chelsea Flower Show Day 5, ends 5:00 pm Monday 18 May – Sightseeing in London Tuesday 19 May – Sightseeing day trip to Oxford Wednesday 20 May – Bus to airport. Flight home Q23 6:00 pm from London, arrive 10:00 pm local time. This shows that Rebecca travelled for 12 days. She spent the majority of the time on business-related activities and took the opportunity to do some sightseeing while in London for 2 extra days. Rebecca can only claim deductions for the business-related portion of her travel. Rebecca can claim: her return airfare to London (which does not have to be separated out as the primary purpose of her travel is for business, and the sightseeing was incidental) her bus fares to and from the airport the costs associated with working at the Chelsea Flower Show including the exhibitor's fee and transport to and from the location from her hotel her accommodation in Chelsea up to and including 17 May meals and incidental costs on the days she attended the Chelsea Flower Show. Rebecca cannot claim: accommodation, meals or transport expenses on the days noted for sightseeing additional private costs from the whole of her time away (such as souvenirs) costs of visas, passports or travel insurance any of James’ expenses (such as his airfares, the cost of his meals or the cost of an extra hotel room for James). End of example   Example: Noah's travel diary Noah owns a business as a sole trader interior designer and decorator. He lives and works in Perth. A new customer asks him to design and decorate her home in Broome. This will take 2 weeks to complete. Noah flies to Broome on Sunday evening and returns to Perth 2 weeks later. On the weekend he does some sightseeing and catches up with friends. He keeps the following travel diary for September. Noah's travel diary entries Sunday 1 September – Fly to Broome (depart 4:00 pm, arrive 6:30 pm) Monday 2 September – Purchase decorating supplies 9:00 am – 10:30 am. Working at client’s house 10:45 am – 4:00 pm Tuesday 3 September to Friday 6 September – Working at client’s house 7:30 am to 4:00 pm Saturday 7 September – Day trip to Horizontal Falls. Dinner with Pam and Geoff Sunday 8 September – Sightseeing around Broome Monday 9 September to Friday 13 September – Working 7:30 am to 4:00 pm at client’s house Saturday 14 September – Return flight to Perth (depart 10:00 am, arrive 12:30 pm). Noah can claim: his return airfare to Broome and taxi to his hotel and from hotel to airport accommodation in Broome for all nights (as the weekend in between was incidental and the primary purpose of travel was for business) costs of undertaking his work in Broome (such as hire of tools) meals and incidental costs of his work. Noah cannot claim his private expenses, including the: cost of the sightseeing he does on the weekend dinner he has with friends. End of example Companies and trusts If your business is a company or a trust, we highly recommend you use a travel diary as it will help you work out the proportion of the travel that was for private purposes. Records for business travel expenses You must keep records for 5 years to substantiate your business travel expenses, including: tax invoices boarding passes tickets travel diaries details of how you worked out the private portion of expenses. If you’re a sole trader with simple tax affairs, you can use the myDeductions tool in the ATO app to record your business-related expenses. QC 44448 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).