Motor vehicle expense calculation methods | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Motor vehicle expense calculation methods Work out how to claim motor vehicle expenses, depending on your business structure and the type of vehicle. Last updated 7 May 2025 Print or Download Using the correct method Make sure you use the correct calculation method. Using the wrong method can lead to incorrect claims. Different rules apply depending on your business structure and the type of vehicle you are claiming for: Sole trader or partnership Company or trust Sole trader or partnership If you operate your business as a sole trader or partnership (where at least one partner is an individual), the method you can use depends on the type of vehicle: When claiming for a car , you can use either the cents per kilometre method or the logbook method (you can use different methods for different cars and you can also change methods from year to year) When claiming for other vehicles , you must use the actual costs method. If you are completing an outstanding tax return for 2014–15 or earlier, you may be able to use other methods that were available before 1 July 2015 . Company or trust You must use the actual costs method to work out motor vehicle expenses, regardless of the type of motor vehicle.   QC 33877 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).