Accounting for GST in your business | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Accounting for GST in your business Choosing an accounting method, thinking about cash flow and GST and the advantages of keeping good records. Last updated 5 April 2019 Print or Download As a GST-registered business, you need to issue tax invoices to your customers, collect GST and send it to us with your business activity statement (BAS). There are a few ways you can make this easier to manage: use business accounting software to produce tax invoices and automatically generate reports of your GST liabilities and credits at BAS time put the GST you collect in a separate bank account take advantage of the cash accounting option to better align your GST liabilities with your business cash flow. Next steps Choosing an accounting method Paying GST and your cash flow BAS and GST tips Choosing an accounting method, thinking about cash flow and GST and the advantages of keeping good records. Paying GST and your cash flow Use our instalment and calculation methods to work out how much your income exceeds the GST credits. Choosing an accounting method Work out which method is suitable for you when accounting for GST and find out more on the accounting method. QC 22437 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).