Employers of Pacific Australia Labour Mobility scheme workers | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Employers of Pacific Australia Labour Mobility scheme workers If you have workers in the PALM scheme you need to be an approved employer, withhold tax and provide income statements. Last updated 24 April 2024 Print or Download SWP and PLS consolidation From July 2023 the Seasonal Worker Programme (SWP) and the Pacific Labour Scheme (PLS) have been consolidated under the Pacific Australia Labour Mobility (PALM) scheme. While the PALM scheme consolidates the SWP and PLS, some of your workers might remain on these schemes for the duration of their visa. You can continue to apply the SWP or PLS rules to workers who were issued their visa prior to 4 April 2022. You can check your worker's visa status using the Visa Entitlement Verification Online system External Link . PALM scheme approved employer You can apply to be a PALM scheme approved employer External Link under the PALM scheme by going through the assessment process. Tax file number Once PALM scheme workers have entered Australia, they can apply for a tax file number (TFN) using their passport and visa details. They will need to provide you with their TFN. Their TFN can also be given to their super fund. Withholding rate If you are a PALM scheme approved employer, you must withhold tax at a flat rate of 15% on all payments made to PALM scheme workers who are foreign residents for tax purposes. If you're not a PALM scheme approved employer, you must withhold tax at foreign resident rates for workers who are foreign residents for tax purposes. Your employee will need to lodge a tax return. You should use our tax tables under 'Regular payments' to work out how much to withhold from payments you make to PALM scheme workers who are Australian residents for tax purposes. Reporting You must provide payment summaries (or income statements if reporting under Single Touch Payroll (STP)) to PALM scheme workers if you have withheld tax from payments. Foreign resident PALM scheme workers employed by a PALM scheme approved employer are not required to lodge tax returns unless they earn other Australian income outside of the program. They should not include their income from the PALM scheme in their tax returns. At the end of each financial year, you will need to include these payment summaries, and any others that you have issued, when you lodge your pay as you go (PAYG) withholding payment summary annual report . If you report under STP , the income statements for PALM scheme workers will need to be included along with all your other employees. QC 69195 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).