The quarterly super guarantee charge | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search The quarterly super guarantee charge Learn about the super guarantee charge (SGC), including how to lodge an SGC statement by the due date, and pay. Last updated 25 February 2026 Print or Download Info Alert This information is only for employee earnings paid up to 30 June 2026. For employee earnings paid from 1 July 2026, the new Payday Super rules apply. See The new super guarantee charge . Overview of the SGC If you don't pay an employee's super guarantee (SG) amount in full, on time and to the right fund, you must: pay the super guarantee charge (SGC) lodge an SGC statement with us. The SGC is more than the super you would have otherwise paid to the employee's fund and is not tax deductible. Media: What is a super guarantee charge statement https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bi9or7odhni6g7 External Link ( Duration: 2:57) SGC payment and lodgment dates The due date for paying SGC and lodging the SGC statement is one calendar month after the SG due date. SGC payment and lodgment dates Quarter SG payment due date SGC and statement due date 1 July – 30 September 28 October 28 November 1 October – 31 December 28 January 28 February 1 January – 31 March 28 April 28 May 1 April – 30 June 28 July 28 August If a due date falls on a weekend or public holiday, you can pay the SGC and lodge the SGC statement on the next business day. Working out the SGC The SGC includes: the SG shortfall, made up of SG calculated on salary and wages (including any overtime) any choice liability, based on the shortfall and capped at $500 nominal interest of 10% per annum (accrues from the start of the relevant quarter). The nominal interest component is calculated from the first day of the quarter, to the quarterly due date or the date the quarterly SGC statement is received by the ATO (whichever occurs later) an administration fee of $20 per employee, per quarter. The easiest way to work out the SGC is to use the Super guarantee charge (SGC) statement . How to lodge SGC There are 3 ways to lodge your SGC statement: Complete the SGC statement and lodge using ATO online services . Use the SGC calculator in ATO online services – the statement will also calculate your SGC liability. Use the SGC statement and calculator tool to generate a PDF version of your statement. You can print this and mail it to us. (Note: We don't recommend this option as there is a higher chance of mistakes and it takes much longer to process.) Complete the SGC statement spreadsheet and lodge using ATO online services You can complete the Super guarantee charge (SGC) statement and send it to us using the Secure mail function in Online services for business or Online services for individuals. The spreadsheet will: work out the nominal interest component not work out the super guarantee shortfall. Make sure you: complete a separate spreadsheet for each quarter refer to the Guide to completing the Super Guarantee Charge (SGC) statement for instructions on how to complete the statement use the .xls format when you save your spreadsheet. To send your spreadsheet to us: Open Secure mail . Select New message . Select Topic = Superannuation . Select Subject = Lodge SGC statement . You can attach up to 6 spreadsheets (each attachment has a maximum file size of 6 MB). Log in to Online services for business   Log in to Online services for individuals Use the SGC statement in ATO online services You can lodge a SGC statement through the Online forms section of Online services for business or Online services for individuals. The SGC calculator will ask you a series of questions to help you work out: if you need to pay the SGC for your employees how much you need to pay. At the end, the calculator will electronically lodge your SGC statement with us. Log in to Online services for business   Log in to Online services for individuals Use the SGC statement and calculator tool and mail the statement You can use the SGC statement and calculator tool  to work out: if you need to pay the SGC for your employees how much you need to pay. We don't recommend using this option as there is a higher chance of mistakes and it takes much longer to process. If you need to pay the SGC charge you can create a PDF version of the SGC statement . If you are a WPN holder without an ABN, enter 70707070707  into the ABN section to complete the SGC statement. Include a cover note quoting your WPN as a reference when you mail your statement to us. Mail your signed and completed statement to: Australian Taxation Office PO Box 3578 ALBURY  NSW  2640 Lodging and paying the SGC Super payment due dates occur quarterly. To avoid paying the SGC, you must pay on time, in full and to the right fund. If you can't pay by the due date, you still need to lodge the SGC statement on time. You can minimise the general interest charge (GIC) that accrues on any outstanding SGC by making your payment straight away. Payment reference number To pay your SGC, you need a payment reference number (PRN). If you have an SGC-related notice or payment slip from us for the same ABN or WPN, you can use the same PRN on it to pay us. You can find your PRN in Online services for business or Online services for individuals, at the: print option on the SGC lodgment summary screen accounts summary screen payment screens for BPAY or Other payment methods. If you don’t have a PRN you can phone us on 1800 815 886 between 8:00 am and 6:00 pm, Monday to Friday. Make sure you have your ABN or WPN and contact details with you when you call. When you have your PRN, you can pay us your SGC. For more information on payment methods, see How to pay . Why lodge on time? When you lodge on time, you can access our support services that provide help with paying . If you can't pay in full but you lodge by the due date, you may be able to set-up a payment plan to pay in instalments. Once you become liable to pay SGC, nominal interest accrues from the first day of the quarter to the later of the due date for that quarter or date you lodge the SGC statement. Nominal interest is part of the SGC and, by law, cannot be reduced or waived. Request an extension to lodge an SGC statement If you require an extension of time to lodge an SGC statement, you must make the request before the due date. Phone us on 13 10 20 and explain why you need an extension. An extension will not prevent nominal interest and shortfall general interest charge (GIC) being imposed for the quarter. Shortfall GIC will apply from the date of lodgment until the SGC is paid in full. Our collection approach to unpaid SGC We prioritise the collection of unpaid SGC debts and we'll work with you to address outstanding amounts. If you don't engage with us we'll take stronger action if you don't pay , which can include additional penalties . We also receive employee referrals of unpaid super. If we find or reasonably suspect that you haven't met your obligations, we may inform all your affected employees and any former employees of any SG shortfall. Overdue quarterly super guarantee payment Why you should pay super guarantee on time as an employer and what to do if you don't pay by the due date. Super guarantee charge amendments or objections If you're found liable for a super guarantee charge or penalty, you are entitled to amend or object to an assessment. Superannuation guarantee amnesty The super guarantee amnesty ended 7 September 2020. QC 33743 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).