How to report Single Touch Payroll data | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search How to report Single Touch Payroll data You can send Single Touch Payroll (STP) data to us in a few ways. Last updated 5 November 2023 Print or Download Your options to send STP data How you send STP information to us depends on the software you use. There are three types of solutions. After you run your payroll you can either send the STP information: directly to us from your payroll software through a third party sending service provider (SSP) which is integrated into your software through a third party sending service provider (SSP) service which is outside your software. To find out what type of solution is suitable you can: talk to your existing software provider look at the STP product register to find STP payroll software External Link . Option one: Report through existing payroll or accounting solution You can report from your existing payroll or accounting software if it is STP-enabled. Next steps Talk to your software provider to find out what they offer and what you need to do Read our Get ready and Start reporting checklists Option two: Choose STP-enabled payroll software If you don't currently use payroll software, you can find a suitable product for your business needs, including micro employers (1–4 employees) on the product register. Next steps Talk to your registered tax or BAS agent to find out which payroll software product would best suit your business needs Look at the product register to find STP payroll software External Link Option three: Ask a third party to report for you You can ask a third party to report for you, for example a: registered tax or BAS agent payroll service provider. It is your obligation to make sure the third party will be reporting for you through STP-enabled software. If you use a registered tax or BAS agent, talk to them about your options. They may be able to report through STP for you, or work with you to outsource your payroll to a payroll service provider. Payroll service providers who are providing a STP reporting service must be registered as a tax or BAS agent. You can check their registration details with the Tax Practitioners Board External Link . QC 60137 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).