Taxable sales | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Taxable sales Find out when your business sales are taxable and you include GST in the price. Last updated 18 May 2023 Print or Download About taxable sales If you are registered for GST , or required to be, the goods and services you sell in Australia are taxable, unless they are GST-free or input-taxed. To be a taxable sale with GST in the price, a sale must be: for payment of some kind made in the course of operating your business connected with Australia Paying GST on taxable sales You pay GST on the taxable sales you make when you lodge your activity statement. For these taxable sales, you: include GST in the price issue a tax invoice to the buyer pay the GST you've collected when you lodge your activity statement. You can claim credits for the GST included in the price of purchases you needed to make your taxable sales. Use the GST calculator External Link on ASIC's MoneySmart website to calculate the amount of GST to include in a taxable sale. For terms related to GST, check GST definitions . Partly taxable sales If your sale can be separated into identifiable parts and any of those parts are GST-free or input-taxed, the sale is partly taxable. You only need to pay GST on the taxable part of the sale. For more information, see: GST-free sales Input-taxed sales GST Ruling GSTR 2001/8 Goods and services tax: Apportioning the consideration for a supply that includes taxable and non-taxable parts . Capital assets Sales of business assets such as office equipment and motor vehicles are usually taxable sales. You will need to include GST when you trade in or dispose of business assets by transferring ownership. For more information, see: GST and the disposal of capital assets . Sales for payment For a sale to be taxable, it must be made for payment which can be monetary or another form of payment, such as: goods or services provided instead of money, such as barter transactions payment in the form of refraining from doing something. Start of example Example: non-monetary payments Marnie is a makeup artist registered for GST. She posts videos to social media platform on how to apply makeup and receives thousands of views. Louise's Lipsticks Pty Ltd, an Australian business, engages Marnie to promote their products in her social media videos. Under the agreement, Marnie receives $22,000 worth of products from Louise's Lipsticks Pty Ltd as payment for promoting their products in her videos. Marnie’s taxable sale to Louise’s Lipsticks Pty Ltd has a value of $22,000. She provides a tax invoice to Louise’s Lipsticks Pty Ltd for her promotional services at a cost of $20,000 plus $2,000 GST. Marnie must also include $2,000 GST from this taxable sale in her BAS. End of example For more information, see: Bartering and trade exchanges Grants and sponsorship GST Ruling GST 2001/6 Goods and services tax: Non-monetary consideration . Sales in the course of operating your business For a sale to be taxable, you must provide the goods or services as part of conducting your business. This includes all sales of business assets, including items such as motor vehicles and office plant and equipment. It also includes things done in the course of setting up or winding down your business. Sales connected with Australia GST applies to sales connected with Australia, whether they are: goods property things other than goods or property Goods A sale of goods is connected with Australia if the goods are either: delivered or made available in Australia to the purchaser removed from Australia brought to Australia – provided the seller either imports the goods or installs or assembles the goods in Australia. from 1 July 2018, supplies of low value imported goods to a consumer in Australia. Exports of goods and services from Australia are generally GST-free, even though the sale is connected with Australia. For more information, see: Exports of goods GST on low value imported goods GSTR 2018/2 Goods and services tax: supplies of goods connected with the indirect tax zone (Australia) Property A sale of property is connected with Australia if the property is in Australia. For GST purposes, property includes: land land and buildings interest in land rights over land a licence to occupy land. For more information, see GSTR 2018/1 Goods and services tax: supplies of real property connected with the indirect tax zone (Australia) . Things other than goods or property A sale of something other than goods or property is connected with Australia if either the: thing is done in Australia seller makes the sale through a business they carry on in Australia sale is of a right or option to purchase something that would be connected with Australia. purchaser of the sale is an Australian consumer. For more information, see: GSTR 2019/1 Goods and services tax: supply of anything other than goods or real property connected with the indirect tax zone (Australia) . GST on imported services and digital products GSTR 2017/1 Goods and services tax: making cross-border supplies to Australian customers QC 22418 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).