Tax invoices | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Tax invoices Explains when to provide a tax invoice, what it must include and dealing with non-taxable sales and rounding. Last updated 25 August 2025 Print or Download When to provide a tax invoice If a customer asks for a tax invoice, you must provide one within 28 days, unless it is for a sale of $82.50 (including GST) or less. The information a tax invoice must include depends on: the sale amount the sale type (for example, a sale that includes both taxable and non-taxable items) who issues the tax invoice. Sales under $1,000 Tax invoices for taxable sales of less than $1,000 must include enough information to clearly determine the following 7 details: Document is intended to be a tax invoice. Seller's identity. Seller's Australian business number (ABN). Date the invoice was issued. Brief description of the items sold, including the quantity (if applicable) and the price. GST amount (if any) payable – this can be shown separately or, if the GST amount is exactly 1/11 of the total price, as a statement which says, 'Total price includes GST.' Extent to which each sale on the invoice is a taxable sale. Example 1: tax invoice for a sale under $1,000 End of example Sales of $1,000 or more Tax invoices for sales of $1,000 or more also need to show the buyer's identity or ABN. If your tax invoices meet the requirements for sales of $1,000 or more, you can also use them for sales of lesser amounts. Example 2 shows: GST included in each line item the sale is clearly identified as being fully taxable by the words 'Total price includes GST' the buyer's identity for sales of $1,000 or more. Example 2: tax invoice for a sale of $1,000 or more End of example If you supply or receive an invoice that only has a figure at a wine equalisation tax-goods services tax (WEG) label , you need further information to claim GST credits and for it to be considered a valid tax invoice. GSTR 2013/1 Goods and services tax: tax invoices sets out the information requirements for a tax invoice in more detail. Taxable and non-taxable sales A tax invoice that includes taxable and non-taxable items, must clearly show which items are taxable. Items are non-taxable if they are GST-free or input-taxed . The tax invoice must also show: each taxable sale the amount of GST to be paid the total amount to be paid. Use ASIC's MoneySmart GST calculator External Link to calculate the amount of GST you will pay or should charge customers. GST 2001/8 Goods and services tax: Apportioning the consideration for a supply that includes taxable and non-taxable parts provides more detail about apportioning. Digital invoices A tax invoice doesn't need to be issued in paper form. For example, you can issue a tax invoice to a customer by emailing an invoice in portable document format (PDF) or other digital formats. Any digital record or document transmitted to the customer needs to contain all the required information to be a valid tax invoice. eInvoicing Australia has adopted the  Peppol  framework as the common standard and network for eInvoicing. eInvoicing (Peppol Invoice) is an automated direct exchange of invoices between a supplier's and buyer's software. Some eInvoices may not include words such as ‘Tax Invoice’ or’ GST invoice’. However, we consider that an eInvoice satisfies the requirement that the ‘document is intended to be a tax invoice’ if the eInvoice is issued by a supplier in accordance with the A-NZ Invoice Specification under the Peppol framework, and it contains all the mandatory data. Find out more about eInvoice data requirements . Rounding of GST Where an amount of GST includes a fraction of a cent, special rounding rules apply. Where there is only one taxable sale on a tax invoice, the amount of GST should be rounded to the nearest cent (rounding 0.5 cents upwards). Where there is more than one taxable sale on a tax invoice, there are 2 rules known as the total invoice rule and the taxable supply rule. Total invoice rule – total and then round GST for each taxable sale to the nearest cent (rounding 0.5 cents upwards). Or if all taxable sales on a tax invoice include an amount of GST exactly 1/11 of the price, add up the GST-exclusive value of each taxable sale, calculate GST on that amount and then round to the nearest cent (rounding 0.5 cents upwards). Taxable sale rule – work out the amount of GST for each individual taxable sale. Where the unrounded amount of GST has more decimal places than your accounting system can record, round up or down as appropriate. Then add the individual amounts and round this total to the nearest cent (rounding 0.5 cents upwards). You and your customers don't need to use the same rounding rules. Agency relationships Special rules apply to tax invoices for transactions carried out through agents. For more information see GSTR 2000/37 Goods and services tax: agency relationships and the application of the law . Recipient-created tax invoices In most cases, tax invoices are issued by a supplier. However, in special cases, you, as the purchaser or recipient of the goods or services, may issue a tax invoice for your purchases. This is known as a recipient-created tax invoice (RCTI). When you can issue an RCTI You can issue an RCTI if: you and the supplier are both registered for GST at the time the RCTI is issued you and the supplier agree in writing that you may issue an RCTI and they won't issue a tax invoice the agreement is current and effective when you issue the RCTI the Commissioner has determined that the type of goods or services sold under the agreement can be invoiced using an RCTI. Use the Recipient Created Tax Invoice Determination 2023 to find out what goods and services you can issue an RCTI for. The determination also outlines requirements that you must include in the written agreement between you and the supplier. Your written agreement can either be a separate document specifying the sales, or you can embed this information or specific terms in the tax invoice. Use the Recipient-created tax invoices form as a template for creating RCTIs, or as a reference for information you need to create your own RCTI. See GSTR 2000/10 Goods and services tax: recipient created tax invoices for more information about RCTIs. When an RCTI is valid To be valid, an RCTI must: contain enough information to clearly determine the requirements of tax invoices and show the document is intended to be a recipient-created tax invoice, not a standard tax invoice show the suppliers and purchaser's ABN and both must be GST registered at the time the RCTI is issued if GST is payable, an RCTI must also show that it's payable by the supplier. As the recipient, you must: issue the original or a copy of your RCTI to the supplier within 28 days of one of the following dates date of the sale date the value of the sale is determined by you retain the original or a copy of the RCTI reasonably comply with your obligations under the tax laws stop issuing RCTIs if any of the requirements for issuing RCTIs are no longer met. For example, the supplier is no longer GST registered. RCTI issuer responsibilities When you issue RCTIs, you need to take reasonable care to ensure you meet all the requirements for when you can issue an RCTI and your GST credit claims are correct. It's expected that you: have strong systems and checks in place to ensure you meet the requirements to issue RCTIs check that the supplier is GST-registered before issuing your first RCTI to them undertake periodic checks to ensure your supplier remains GST-registered if you issue RCTIs to them on an ongoing basis. The ABN Lookup External Link has a variety of tools and resources to help you check whether an entity is registered for GST. A best practice governance approach is to use automated validation checks at the time of issuing the RCTI. You can integrate ABN Lookup validation data into your own software using ABN Lookup web services External Link . If a supplier is no longer registered for GST, you cannot issue RCTIs to that supplier. This can lead to you incorrectly claiming GST credits. If you've incorrectly claimed GST credits because you've relied on a document that is not a valid RCTI, you should make a voluntary disclosure . We encourage you to review your governance frameworks to reduce the risk of future errors. GST groups If a member of a GST group makes a taxable sale, their identity must be clear on the tax invoice. If the recipient is a member of a GST group, the buyer's identity must be clearly shown to satisfy the requirement. Include one of the following in the tax invoice: the recipient the GST group the representative member another member of the GST group (where there would still be a creditable acquisition if the supply been made to that member). Multiple recipients or co-owners On a single tax invoice for a taxable sale (for $1,000 or more) to more than one recipient, you must clearly show either: the identity of each recipient the ABN of each recipient. On a single tax invoice for a taxable sale made by more than one entity (for example, co-owners of property), you must clearly show either: the identity and ABN of each co-owner the identity and ABN of one co-owner acting as 'agent co-owner' for the other. When co-owners receive a tax invoice for a sale (for $1,000 or more), the tax invoice must clearly show either: the identity of each co-owner the ABN of each co-owner. QC 22438 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).