Entertainment-related fringe benefits | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Entertainment-related fringe benefits Work out if FBT applies to food, drink or recreation, and any associated travel or accommodation. How to work out FBT on entertainment Use these steps to work out the FBT on food, drink and recreation you provide to employees. When is food, drink and recreation considered entertainment? Find out if food, drink and recreation you provide to employees is considered entertainment that is subject to FBT. Exempt entertainment benefits for business Entertainment may be exempt from FBT if it is a minor benefit, taxi travel, or food and drink on your premises. Common entertainment scenarios for business Examples of how FBT applies to businesses for Christmas parties, recreation days, seminars and other events. FBT and entertainment for not-for-profit and government organisations Tax-exempt body entertainment fringe benefits, exemptions and common scenarios for not-for-profits and government. Calculating the taxable value of entertainment-related benefits Use the actual value or meal entertainment methods to work out the taxable value of entertainment-related benefits. QC 71135 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).