Deductions for salaries, wages and super contributions | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Deductions for salaries, wages and super contributions How business owners can claim a tax deduction for employee salaries, wages and super contributions. Last updated 17 April 2026 Print or Download When you can claim a deduction As a business owner, you can generally claim a tax deduction for: the salaries and wages you pay to employees super contributions you make on time to a complying super fund or retirement savings account for your employees and for certain contractors. Salary and wage expenses are a type of operating expense (sometimes called working or revenue expense). If you're a sole trader, you can usually claim a deduction for your own super contributions in your personal tax return. If you're thinking of hiring, or have already hired, someone to work in your business, understand your tax and super obligations when engaging a worker . Labour costs for constructing or creating tangible and intangible capital assets can’t be claimed as an immediate tax deduction. Capital asset labour costs are considered capital in nature and may be claimed as part of your depreciation or capital works expenses. Salaries and wages As the business owner, the deductions you can claim depend on the type of business you operate. Generally, to claim a deduction for payments you make to your workers, you must first comply with the PAYG withholding and reporting obligations for each payment. You can remove tax deductibility of non-compliant payments if you complied with PAYG withholding and reporting obligations. If your income includes personal services income (PSI), the amount you can claim as a deduction for payments you make to an associate may be limited. Sole traders If you operate as a sole trader, you are the business owner and not an employee of your business. This means you can't pay yourself a salary or wage. Any nominal payment of a salary or wage to you is considered a distribution of profit. Partnership business If you operate your business as a partnership, you can't pay yourself salary or wages. This is because you are a partner, not an employee. Any nominal payment of a salary or wages to a partner is considered a distribution of profit. Company or trust If you operate your business as a company or trust, your company or trust can generally claim a deduction for any salaries and wages paid to you or other workers. Contractors If you engage a contractor to complete a service for your business, you may be able to claim the amount you pay them as a deduction. Super contributions for your workers You can claim a deduction for super contributions you make on time to a complying super fund or retirement savings account for your employees and for certain contractors. To work out which contractors this applies to, use How to work it out – employee or contractor . The amount you can claim may be limited if your income includes PSI. As a business owner, we understand how busy you are managing and growing your business as well as meeting your employer obligations. Remember to plan for your own future. Super can make a positive difference to your lifestyle in retirement. You may be able to claim a deduction (in your personal tax return) for your personal super contributions. You may also be eligible for government super contributions such as the super co-contribution or low-income super tax offset. Visit Super for employers to work out how much super you must pay your employees. To find out more about super contributions see: Personal super contributions Government super contributions The new super guarantee charge With the introduction of Payday Super, from 1 July 2026 you can claim a deduction for an amount of super guarantee charge that you pay. You can't claim a deduction for any penalties or interest that accrues after an assessment of super guarantee charge. See The new super guarantee charge to learn more. QC 33728 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).