Payments you need to withhold from | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Payments you need to withhold from Withholding amounts may be required for your workers, other businesses and other payees, and sent to us. Last updated 11 June 2025 Print or Download Withholding by employers Your withholding obligations depend on whether your worker is an employee or independent contractor. If your worker is: an employee, you generally have to withhold amounts from payments you make to them an independent contractor, you generally do not withhold amounts from payments you make to them (unless they request withholding by entering into a voluntary agreement with you). To check if your worker is an employee or independent contractor, you need to review the whole working arrangement. Our employee or independent contractor pages can help you determine the status of your worker. The most common payments you withhold amounts from are those to: your employees your directors businesses that don't quote their ABN to you independent contractors who have a voluntary agreement with you. If you operate your business as a sole trader or partnership and you draw amounts from the business, this is not a wage and you don't have to withhold from these drawings. Instead, you make some provision for your income tax liability through PAYG instalments . Other payments that may need tax withheld Payments, other than income from employment, may also need tax withheld, including: investment income to someone who does not provide their TFN dividends, interest and royalties paid to foreign residents payments to certain foreign residents for activities related to gaming, entertainment and sports, and construction payments to Australian residents working overseas super income streams and annuities payments made to beneficiaries of closely held trusts .   Payments to employees Understand when and how to withhold payments from the different types of payments you make to employees. Payments with special rules Special rules apply when calculating the amount of tax to withhold for certain employees. Payments to contractors under a voluntary agreement Independent contractors must meet their own tax obligations unless you enter into a voluntary agreement to withhold tax. Labour-hire firms and their workers Labour-hire firms must withhold tax from payments to both employees and independent contractors. Compensation, sickness and accident payments You may need to withhold tax from compensation, sickness or accident payments you make to an individual. Workplace giving programs How to set up a workplace giving program and ask your employees to participate to donate to charities or organisations. Withholding from investment income Amounts must be withheld from investment income if a tax file number or Australian business number has not been quoted. Withholding from suppliers If a business supplies you with goods or services, it should quote its Australian business number (ABN) to you. QC 27059 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).