Business activity statements (BAS) | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Business activity statements (BAS) How to complete, lodge and pay your business activity statement (BAS) or GST or PAYG instalment notice. How to lodge your BAS How to lodge your business activity statements (BAS) to report and pay your taxes, including GST and PAYG. Due dates for lodging and paying your BAS The due date for lodging and paying is displayed on your business activity statement (BAS). BAS and GST tips See tips on getting your GST right and preparing and lodging your business activity statements (BAS). Fixing BAS mistakes or making adjustments What to do if you need to fix a mistake in a previously lodged BAS or make an adjustment for a change. What if you can't lodge and pay on time? If you can't lodge or pay by the due date, contact us as soon as possible. Goods and services tax (GST) How to complete labels G1, G2, G3, G10, G11, G21, G22, G23, G24, 1A and 1B on your BAS. Pay as you go (PAYG) withholding How to complete labels W1, W2, W3, W4, W5 and 4 on your BAS. PAYG instalments You report and pay your PAYG instalments through your activity statement or instalment notice. Fringe benefits tax (FBT) instalment How to complete labels F1, F2, F3, F4, 6A and 6B on your BAS. Luxury car tax (LCT) LCT applies to cars with a GST-inclusive value exceeding the LCT threshold. Understand how to complete labels 1E and 1F. Wine equalisation tax (WET) When and how to complete labels 1C and 1D on your BAS. Fuel tax credits How to complete labels 7C and 7D on your BAS. Instalment notices for GST and PAYG instalments Find out about if you'll receive a quarterly GST or pay as you go (PAYG) instalment notice instead of a BAS. QC 33678 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).