Business deductions | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Business deductions Understand which business expenses can be claimed as tax deductions. Last updated 18 June 2026 Print or Download Media: Business deductions: Small Business Tax Basics https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bd1bdiubfw7bqc External Link ( Duration: 2:20) What you can claim You can claim a tax deduction for most expenses you incur in carrying on your business if they are directly related to earning your assessable income. Types of business expenses you may be able to claim deductions for include: certain capital expenses , such as the cost of depreciating assets like machinery and equipment used in your business day-to-day operating expenses purchases of products or services for your business. The amount of your deduction and when you can claim it will depend on: the type of expense (for example, certain capital expenditures are deductible over time) whether it has any private or domestic purpose for which you must reduce your deduction some expenses are not deductible (for example, fines). There are 3 golden rules for what we accept as a valid business deduction: The expense must have been for your business, available as an allowable deduction and not for private use. If the expense is for a mix of business and private use, you can only claim the portion that is used for your business. You must have records to prove it. You can't claim the GST component of your expenses as a deduction if you can claim it as a GST credit on your business activity statement. You can also claim deductions for expenses related to protecting staff from safety hazards involved in performing their duties. For example, infection from transmissible diseases. This may include hand sanitiser, sneeze or cough guards, face masks, gloves, other personal protective equipment, antibacterial wipes and other cleaning supplies that are used for business purposes. Learn more by taking our online course, Claiming small business tax deductions External Link . If you need assistance with understanding some of the tax and super terms, see our Definitions . What you can't claim There are some expenses that are not deductible, such as: entertainment expenses, other than those you provide as an entertainment-related fringe benefit traffic fines private or domestic expenses, such as childcare fees or clothes for your family expenses relating to earning income that is not assessable payments for which you have not met your PAYG withholding or reporting obligations – see non-compliant payments the GST component of a purchase if you can claim it as a GST credit on your business activity statement general interest charge or shortfall interest charge incurred on or after 1 July 2025 – if you’re an entity with a substituted accounting period, these changes apply from your next accounting period starting after 1 July 2025. You generally cannot claim a deduction for the cost of capital assets that are dealt with under the capital gains tax rules, such as the land your business premises are on. Some exceptions apply for capital works , plant and certain expenditure of primary producers on improvements to land. If you earn personal services income (PSI) and the PSI rules apply, the PSI rules will limit the deductions you can claim in relation to your PSI . How to apportion for expenses that have both business and private purposes You cannot claim a deduction for an expense to the extent it is incurred for a private or domestic purpose. How you apportion depends on how much of the expense relates to running your business and the type of expense. If you have a home-based business and claim occupancy expenses you will generally apportion these based on floor area and the time your home is used in your business. For running expenses, there is a variety of methods you may use depending on your circumstances. There are different methods you can use to calculate deductions for your motor vehicle expenses , depending on your business structure and the type of vehicle you are claiming them for. For other expenses, you will generally apportion based on the private and business use of the asset or service acquired. This must be done on a fair and reasonable basis that reflects any private use of the asset or purpose of the expense. You need to keep records to show how you have apportioned your expense. For example, if you incur an expense to repair your laptop which you only use for your business, you can claim a deduction for the full cost of the repair. However, if you use the laptop 50% of the time for your business and 50% of the time for private use, you can only claim a deduction for 50% of the cost of the repair. Example: expenses that have both business and private purposes Jax is a make-up artist who runs a business teaching make-up techniques and promoting make-up and products for profit through multiple online channels. Jax purchases make-up for use in that business but also uses some of the make-up they purchase for personal use. They estimate this to be about 50% with the remainder used in their teaching business. Jax is only able to claim a deduction for 50% of the cost of the make-up. End of example When you can claim your deduction The type of expense – operating expense or capital expense – determines when you can claim your deduction. Generally, you can claim: operating expenses (such as office stationery and wages) in the year you incur them certain capital expenses (such as depreciating assets and capital works assets) over a longer period – however, you may be eligible to claim an immediate deduction for the business use portion of depreciating assets you acquire for your business if you are a small business entity and choose to apply the simplified depreciation rules . other capital expenses (such as start-up expenses) may be immediately deductible or claimed over time. For more information, see Deductions for depreciating assets and other capital expenses . You generally incur an expense when you have a legal obligation to pay for the goods or services. An invoice is not necessary for an expense to have been incurred, but you do need a record of the expense. If you use an item in your business for only part of a year, you generally need to restrict your claim to the period it was used for the business. Claiming a deduction for a prepaid expense There are different rules for expenses you pay in advance – that is, expenses you incur now for goods or services you will receive (in whole or in part) in a later income year. Where the expense is $1,000 or more, you will usually need to apportion (or distribute) the expense across the whole supply or service period if you: won't receive the goods or services in full within 12 months are not eligible for an immediate deduction. How to claim your tax deduction How to claim your business deductions depends on your business type: Sole trader – claim the deductions in your individual tax return in the 'Business and professional items' schedule, using myTax or a registered tax agent. Partnership – claim the deductions in your partnership tax return. Trust – claim the deductions in your trust tax return. Company – claim the deductions in your company tax return. Types of expenses Learn more about the different types of expenses using the following links: Deductions for motor vehicle expenses As a business owner, you can claim a tax deduction for expenses for motor vehicles used in running your business. Deductions for home-based business expenses How to claim tax deductions for home-based business expenses if you operate some or all of your business from home. Deductions for business travel expenses You can claim a tax deduction for expenses you incur travelling for your business. Deductions for digital product expenses As a business owner, you can claim a tax deduction for the cost of digital products used in running your business. Deductions for salaries, wages and super contributions How business owners can claim a tax deduction for employee salaries, wages and super contributions. Deductions for repairs, maintenance and replacement expenses Check what deductions your business can claim for repairs, maintenance, and replacement expenses. Deductions for other operating expenses Operating expenses for the everyday running of businesses are generally deductible in the year you pay for them. Deductions for depreciating assets and capital expenses When businesses can claim tax deductions for depreciating assets and other capital expenses. Deductions for carbon sink forest expenses Businesses can claim a deduction for expenses incurred establishing trees in a carbon sink forest. Deductions for unrecoverable income (bad debts) Information about income that cannot be recovered (or a 'bad debt') and how to write off a debt as bad. Small business skills and training boost Check if you can claim a 20% bonus deduction on certain eligible training expenditure for your employees. Small business technology investment boost Check if you can claim a 20% bonus deduction on technology expenditure to help digitise your small business. Small business energy incentive Small businesses can receive a 20% bonus deduction on expenditure to improve energy efficiency. QC 33725 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).