Removing deductions for non-compliant payments | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Removing deductions for non-compliant payments You can only claim deductions for payments to workers if you've complied with PAYG withholding and reporting obligations. Last updated 11 June 2025 Print or Download Types of payments affected If you comply with the PAYG withholding and reporting requirements for the following payments, you can claim a deduction for them. These payments are: salary, wages, commissions, bonuses or allowances to an employee directors’ fees payments to a religious practitioner payments under a labour hire arrangement for a supply (either wholly or partly) of services where the independent contractor hasn't provided you with their Australian business number (ABN). Non-cash benefits A non-cash benefit is something you provide instead of paying cash, for example goods or services. You must report to us the PAYG withholding amount relating to non-cash benefits in order to be able to claim a deduction. Correcting a mistake You won't lose your deduction if you: withheld an incorrect amount by mistake withheld the correct amount but made a mistake when reporting it to us. To minimise any penalties, you should still lodge a voluntary disclosure in the approved form as soon as possible. Failure to withhold or report You will lose your deduction for payments that: you should have withheld from a PAYG amount but didn't you withheld from a PAYG amount but didn't report the amount to us. We may also charge you penalties for failing to withhold an amount from a payment or failing to report the amount to us. You may avoid penalties or be able to claim your deduction if you make a voluntary disclosure in the approved form before we start an audit or other compliance activity involving your PAYG withholding obligations or deduction claims. Mistaking an employee for an independent contractor If you mistakenly treated the person working for you as an independent contractor, rather than an employee, and didn't withhold an amount from their payments, you won't lose your deduction for these payments if you had: obtained an invoice, or some other document relating to the payment, that quoted the independent contractor's ABN no reasonable grounds to believe that it was not the independent contractor's ABN or that the ABN was incorrect. You can correct your mistake by lodging a voluntary disclosure in the approved form . You can use our employee or independent contractor  information pages help you work out if your worker is an employee or independent contractor. Payments to independent contractors You won't lose your deduction for a payment you make to an independent contractor for their services if both of the following apply. You have: been given an invoice, or some other document that relates to the payment, that quotes the independent contractor's ABN no reasonable grounds to believe that it's not the independent contractor's ABN or that the ABN is incorrect. It is always good business practice to check the: ABN on the invoice is active and correct independent contractor is registered for GST (if they have charged GST). You can use ABN Lookup External Link to perform these checks. How we tell you about an audit If you have been selected for an audit or other compliance activity, we will usually phone you, or we may tell you in person or in writing. We will also tell you the scope of the audit and the period(s) under review. Penalties If you don't comply with your PAYG withholding and reporting obligations for a payment, you may: lose your deduction for that payment face penalties for failure to withhold and report amounts under the PAYG withholding system.     QC 57530 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).