Exemptions, concessions and other ways to reduce FBT | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Exemptions, concessions and other ways to reduce FBT Find out what FBT exemptions and concessions you can use. Reduce your FBT through alternatives such as cash bonuses. Reducing your FBT liability How to reduce your FBT by using alternatives to fully taxable fringe benefits or providing concessional benefits. Work-related items exempt from FBT Check which work-related items are exempt from FBT, such as portable electronic devices and tools of trade. Minor benefits exemption Work out if you can apply the minor benefits exemption to a benefit. Taxi, ride-sourcing and public transport exemptions Travel by your employees in taxis to or from the workplace, or on public transport you operate, may be exempt from FBT. Emergency assistance FBT exemptions for emergency assistance including first aid, emergency supplies and temporary repairs. Retraining and reskilling exemption Check if you can claim an FBT exemption for retraining and reskilling redundant employees, redeployment or job seeking. Contributions to approved worker entitlement funds Check if contributions for employee long service leave, sick leave or redundancy payments are exempt from FBT. QC 71156 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).