Reverse charge in the valuable metals industry | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Reverse charge in the valuable metals industry Reverse charges of GST now apply to all business-to-business taxable supplies of gold, silver or platinum. Last updated 17 January 2020 Print or Download The A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (GST Act) as it relates to precious metals has been amended with effect from 1 April 2017. From 1 April 2017, a mandatory reverse charge applies on business-to-business transactions of valuable metals. This applies to sales between GST-registered suppliers and GST-registered purchasers to all taxable supplies of gold, silver or platinum. A reverse charge transaction makes the purchaser responsible for remitting GST, rather than the supplier. It makes it easier and faster for businesses in the valuable metal industry to meet their GST and reporting obligations. To support introduction of the new law, interim arrangements applied from 1 January 2017 to 31 March 2017. These arrangements allowed sellers and purchasers to enter into a voluntary reverse charge (VRC) arrangement. During this time, GST-registered businesses (sellers and purchasers) that entered into a VRC arrangement had to submit a worksheet to report and reconcile these transactions, in addition to lodging their business activity statement (BAS). The reverse charge worksheet does not apply for tax periods after 1 April 2017. Note: The reverse charge is not applicable when you are buying and selling to customers who are not carrying on a business (individual – non-business entities). In these situations, the normal GST rules apply.   See also: A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) (Incidental Valuable Metal Goods) Determination 2017 (No. 1) External Link – Legislation and supporting material VM 2018/1 Goods and Services Tax: Valuable Metals Market Value Determination 2018 – This legislative instrument sets out the method to calculate the market value of valuable metal to work out whether the taxable supply exceeds the valuable metal threshold. How we can help What the reverse charge means Understand what the reverse charge means and how this applies. Determining whether the reverse charge applies to individual products How to determine whether the reverse charge applies. Sales covered by a reverse charge Sales covered by a reverse charge and definitions of precious and valuable metal. Examples of reverse charge See examples of when reverse charge applies. Second-hand goods How we define second-hand goods and how to apply the threshold test and collectable or antique test. Record keeping requirements What records you need to keep for the GST reverse charge. Voluntary reverse charge agreement for sales between 1 January – 31 March 2017 The interim VRC arrangement applied to VRC transactions entered into between 1 January 2017 – 31 March 2017. QC 50847 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).