Taxable payments annual report (TPAR) | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Taxable payments annual report (TPAR) When your business or government entity needs to report contractor payments and lodge a TPAR. Last updated 14 March 2022 Print or Download Businesses and government entities who make payments to contractors may need to report these payments and lodge a Taxable payments annual report (TPAR). Contractors can include subcontractors, consultants and independent contractors. They can operate as sole traders (individuals), companies, partnerships or trusts. A TPAR must be lodged by 28 August each year. Watch the introduction to the taxable payments reporting system (TPRS). Learn when to lodge a TPAR, what payments are reportable, and how contractors and businesses who are paid or pay for TPRS services can meet their obligations: Media: Introduction to the taxable payments reporting system (TPRS) https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bd1bdiunjr5xte External Link ( Duration: 01:04) Work out if you need to lodge a TPAR Work out if you need to lodge a Taxable payments annual report (TPAR) for payments or grants made to contractors. Lodge your TPAR Work out how you can lodge your Taxable payments annual report (TPAR). Taxable payments reporting and contractors Lodge a Taxable payments annual report (TPAR) to report payments made to contractors for providing certain services. QC 32057 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).