Work out if you have to pay super | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Work out if you have to pay super Work out which types of employees are eligible to be paid super and when you need to pay. Last updated 29 April 2026 Print or Download When super guarantee is required If you pay a worker, you are also required to pay them super guarantee. Amount of pay – you pay it regardless of how much they are paid – their earnings amount is not relevant. Employee age – for employees who are       18 years or older, you pay it regardless of how many hours they work under 18 years old , you pay it if they work more than 30 hours in a week. Rate – the super guarantee rate is 12%. What it is calculated on – if you       pay on time, use their ordinary time earnings (OTE) to work out the minimum contribution (OTE is the amount you pay employees for their ordinary hours of work) miss it or make a late payment , use their salary and wages to work out how much super guarantee and super guarantee charge to pay. Media: Super for employers https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bi9or7odhi4umo External Link ( Duration: 2:30) Earnings amount is not relevant Before 1 July 2022, you didn't have to pay super guarantee for a worker earning less than $450 a month. You now have to pay super regardless of their earnings. Eligibility Generally, all employees are eligible for super guarantee. It doesn't matter if the employee is: full time, part time or casual receiving a super pension or annuity while working (this includes employees on transition to retirement) a temporary resident, such as a backpacker a company director a family member working in your business. Example: occasional employers Each summer, Samir – a 32-year-old seasonal fruit picker – works at the ABC produce farm. He usually works 15 hours a month for 3 months, earning $435 a month before tax. In 2021, Samir wasn't eligible for super guarantee as he didn't earn more than $450 in a month. In 2025-26, Samir is eligible for super guarantee, which his employer pays at 12% of his ordinary time earnings. End of example Employees under 18 You must pay super guarantee on payments you make to an employee under 18 years old if they work for you for more than 30 hours in a week, regardless of how much you pay them. Their earnings amount is not relevant. As discussed in Superannuation Guarantee Determination SGD 93/1 , the number of hours worked is the actual number of hours the employee works in that week. You can't average the hours across fortnightly or monthly pay periods. Example: under 18 years old and working different hours a week Lily is 17 years old and has 2 jobs – working at a hardware shop and a local café. From 20 to 24 June 2025, Lily worked 32 hours at the shop and earned $800 before tax. Her employer pays her on 2 July 2025. Lily also works 6 hours a month in the café, earning $150. As Lily has worked: more than 30 hours in one week in the hardware store, this employer pays her super guarantee for this week not more than 30 hours in a week in her job as a barista, this employer doesn't pay her super guarantee for this work. End of example Domestic or private workers A domestic or private worker does work: relating personally to you (not to a business of yours) relating to your home, household affairs or family – such as a nanny, housekeeper or carer. You must pay super guarantee on payments you make to domestic or private workers if they work for you for more than 30 hours in a week, regardless of how much you pay them. Their earnings amount is not relevant. Example: domestic or private worker and working less than 30 hours a week Noah works in a private arrangement as a housekeeper for Scarlett and he does all the cleaning and cooking at her home for 25 hours a week. As Noah has worked less than 30 hours in one week, Scarlett doesn't need to pay his super guarantee regardless of how much she pays him. End of example NDIS plan You may also have to pay super guarantee for a domestic worker or carer if the following both apply: You have a National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) plan that you manage yourself. You use your funds to hire a carer or other domestic worker. Independent contractors You must pay super for independent contractors if you pay them mainly for their labour. This is the case even if they quote an Australian business number (ABN). Their earnings amount is not relevant. International workers Your worker is eligible for super guarantee even if they are a temporary resident, such as a backpacker or a working holiday maker. If you send an Australian employee to work temporarily in another country, you must continue to pay super contributions for them in Australia. If you have employees working overseas , you can apply for a certificate of coverage so you don't have to pay super in the other country as well. However, you don't have to pay super for: non-resident employees who work outside Australia some foreign executives who hold certain visas or entry permits (phone us on 13 10 20 for information) employees temporarily working in Australia who are covered by a bilateral super agreement – you must keep a copy of the employee’s certificate of coverage to prove the exemption. If you’re a non-resident employer, you don't have to pay super for resident employees for work they do outside Australia. Self-employed If you're self-employed as a sole trader or in a partnership , you don't have to pay super guarantee for yourself. Armed forces reservists You don't have to pay super guarantee for members of the army, naval or air force reserve for work carried out in that role. High income earners who opt out of super You don't have to pay super guarantee for high-income earners working for multiple employers who ask you not to pay it to them. You must have an SG employer shortfall exemption certificate for the employee. We will send you the certificate after the employee has applied to us to opt out.   Super for employees working overseas - certificate of coverage Employers must pay super for Australians working temporarily overseas and should apply for a certificate of coverage. Super for independent contractors What you need to know about paying super for independent contractors, offering choice of fund and how much to pay. Super for sole traders and partnerships Self-employed sole traders or partners don't have to pay super guarantee but can make personal super contributions. QC 33749 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).