Overview of business income and deductions | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Overview of business income and deductions An overview of your responsibilities to keep accurate records and pay the right amount of tax. Last updated 7 May 2025 Print or Download Paying the right amount of tax is fair. Tax contributes to public services like schools, roads and hospitals, which is why it's important that everyone pays the right amount of tax. Most income you receive from carrying on your business is assessable for income tax purposes. You can claim tax deductions for most business expenses. You may also be eligible for certain concessions, offsets and rebates. You must: keep accurate and complete records of your assessable income and expenses. Your records must be in English or able to be easily converted to English. use the correct method for calculating and reconciling the amounts you claim report all income and deductions to us at the right time pay any amounts owed on time. We provide guidance on: whether you are in business definitions of tax and super terms which you don't know principles of effective tax governance for your business If you aren't sure how this information applies to your situation, ask your tax professional or contact us for help. We will help you get back on track if you make an error. QC 72740 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).