Deductions for digital product expenses | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Deductions for digital product expenses As a business owner, you can claim a tax deduction for the cost of digital products used in running your business. Last updated 27 May 2026 Print or Download About deductions for digital product expenses The type of expense – operating expense or capital expense – determines when you claim your deduction. Your business may be eligible to claim an immediate or accelerated deduction for a capital expense using a tax depreciation incentive. You can only claim deductions for the portion of your expenses that relate to running your business. You must keep records to prove your expenses and how you calculated your claim. What expenses you can claim As a business owner, you can claim a tax deduction for the cost of digital products used in running your business. There are 2 types of expenses you can claim – operating expenses and capital expenses. The type of expense determines when you claim your deduction. You must apportion your expenses between business and private use, only claiming a deduction for the business portion. For a summary of this content in poster format, see Digital product expenses (PDF, 248KB) This link will download a file . Operating expenses Operating expenses are the expenses you incur in the everyday running of your business. Examples include: cloud storage cost of running a website – for example, site maintenance that preserves its character file-sharing services internet service provider fees lease payments. software subscription fees – for example, accounting, cybersecurity, point of sale (POS), learning, job, client and inventory management software. You claim most operating expenses as a tax deduction in the year you incur them. Example: scanner and photocopier lease On 1 November of the current financial year, Flowers R Best Pty Ltd enter a 12-month lease agreement for a scanner and photocopier. The monthly fee is $100. Flowers R Best Pty Ltd can claim the lease cost as an operating expense in its tax return for the current year. The cost does not qualify as a capital expense because ownership of the assets sits with the entity leasing them to Flowers R Best. End of example Capital expenses Capital expenses are either: the expense of a depreciating asset – including the amount you paid for the asset and the expense of transporting and installing it an expense associated with establishing, replacing, enlarging or improving your business. Examples include: cameras computers and computer accessories connectivity boosters cost of acquiring or developing a website. in-house software mobile phones and tablets point of sale (POS) machines. You generally claim capital expenses over time, reflecting the asset’s depreciation (decline in value). Your business may be eligible to claim an immediate deduction for a capital expense under the simplified depreciation rules . Example: laptops hire purchase B Co Pty Ltd has an aggregated turnover of $9.5 million. The company purchases multiple laptops on a hire-purchase agreement for staff to work away from the office. The total cost (excluding any interest component) is $19,500. The laptops are purchased on 15 March of the current financial year, delivered on 19 March of the same year, and immediately issued to staff for business use. The hirer of the assets is treated as the holder of the assets under the hire-purchase agreement and is entitled to claim a deduction for the depreciation of a capital expense. B Co Pty Ltd can claim the full purchase price of the laptops ($19,500) in the current financial year under the instant asset write-off because: it is the holder of the laptops under the hire-purchase agreement its aggregated annual turnover is less than $10 million the laptops were purchased between 1 July 2023 to 30 June 2026 the laptops were first installed ready for business use before 30 June of the current financial year the cost of the laptops is less than the $20,000 limit. B Co Pty Ltd can also claim the interest component as an operating expense. End of example Software expenses You can claim some software costs as operating expenses in the year you incur them, including: software subscription fees the cost of commercial off-the-shelf software with an effective life of one year or less. If the effective life is more than a year, you need to consider if it is in-house software. Example: software subscription Zoe’s hair salon subscribes to a software as a service (SaaS) provider, which allows her to access software for up to 300 of her customers per month to book appointments online. It is a standardised, cloud-based service where no modifications to her IT infrastructure are required. Zoe can claim the month-by-month fee for this service as an operating expense in the year she incurs them. End of example In-house software In-house software is computer software, or the right to use computer software that you acquire, develop or have someone else develop for your business use, not for sale. Deductions for in-house software may be claimed in a number of ways, depending on the circumstances and your eligibility to use a tax depreciation incentive, such as simplified depreciation rules. If the software is still in development and is not ready for use, you can use the software development pool rules. Once you make the choice to allocate these expenses to a software development pool, you must allocate all later in-house software expenses to a pool. Example: in-house software – software development pool Nguyen is a sole trader who runs an interior design business. He set up a software development pool in the current financial year when he started his business's website. In November of the same year he pays $1,500 to have customised software developed to create bookings and store client information. Nguyen must allocate this expenditure ($1,500) to a software development pool and claim a deduction over the next 5 years in his tax returns. End of example Calculating your claim When calculating your claim, you must apportion your expenses between business and private use, only claiming a deduction for the business portion. If you are registered for goods and services tax (GST) and can claim the full GST credit , you must exclude the GST amount of the asset. Records you need to keep You must keep accurate records to substantiate your claims for digital product expenses. This includes: tax invoices loan or lease documents details of how you calculated your claim. QC 69800 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).