Goods and services tax (GST) | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Goods and services tax (GST) How to complete labels G1, G2, G3, G10, G11, G21, G22, G23, G24, 1A and 1B on your BAS. Last updated 1 April 2020 Print or Download (GST) is a broad-based tax of 10% on most goods, services and other items sold or consumed in Australia. If you are a business, you use a BAS to: report and pay the GST your business has collected claim GST credits. Find out about: Adjusting GST GST reporting methods Simpler BAS GST bookkeeping guide Monthly GST reporting Quarterly GST reporting Annual GST reporting Completing your BAS for GST See also: GST Adjusting GST If you need to correct a mistake in a previous business activity statement, you may need to lodge a revised statement. GST reporting methods Work out how often you need to report GST on your BAS by checking your business turnover. Simpler BAS GST bookkeeping guide This is a general ATO Simpler BAS GST bookkeeping guide for assistance with classifying sales and purchases for GST. QC 33681 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).