Business losses | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Business losses How to carry forward business losses or offset them against other income. Last updated 7 May 2025 Print or Download Watch: Media: Did you know you can claim a business loss as a deduction https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bi9or7odhsw8it External Link ( Duration: 01:10) Business loss If your business makes a tax loss in a current year, you can generally carry forward that loss and claim a deduction for your business in a future year. However, you may be able to offset current year losses if you're a sole trader or an individual partner in a partnership and meet certain conditions. You can’t claim a deduction if: it is not a tax loss – for example, there are some deductions you can't use to create or increase a tax loss, such as donations or gifts and personal super contributions the loss is related to illegal business activities . Your business structure affects whether you: can offset and claim the loss in the current year need to carry forward the loss and claim a deduction for it in a later year. For example, if you are a: sole trader or an individual partner in a partnership – you may be able to either offset your business losses against other types of assessable income for the same income year defer the loss or carry it forward and offset it when you next make a profit company – you may be able to carry forward a tax loss for as long as you want and choose the year you want to claim the deduction. If your business has made more than one tax loss in a year you will need to consider each tax loss separately. The rules for record keeping still apply for business losses. You need to keep records for five years for most transactions. However, if you fully deduct a tax loss in a single income year, you only need to keep records for four years from that income year. See our definitions for explanations of tax and super terms. For information on how to claim tax losses from previous years visit Claiming business tax losses from previous years . Loss carry back tax offset If you are an eligible corporate entity and made a tax loss in the 2019–20, 2020–21, 2021–22 or 2022–23 income years, you may be able to carry back your tax loss and claim a refundable tax offset in your 2020–21, 2021–22 and 2022–23 company tax returns. This is an alternative to carrying the tax loss forward to a future year. Offsetting current year losses Sole traders or individual partners in a partnership may be able to claim business losses by offsetting them. Claiming business tax losses from previous years Your business structure will affect how you can claim business tax losses. Income from illegal activities: losses and outgoings You can't claim income tax deductions for income earned through illegal activity. QC 33708 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).