Registered emissions units | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Registered emissions units Income tax treatment of registered emissions units, and basic principles of how an REU is taxed. Last updated 14 February 2024 Print or Download What are registered emissions units A registered emissions unit (REU) is a unit for which there is an entry in a Registry account in the Australian National Registry of Emissions Units External Link , within the meaning of the Australian National Registry of Emissions Units Act 2011. There are 3 types of REUs: a Kyoto unit an Australian carbon credit unit (ACCU) a safeguard mechanism credit unit. Basic tax treatment of REUs Holders of REUs are taxed on their REUs exclusively under Division 420 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 and the normal rules, such as CGT, don't apply to them. Other carbon credits and emissions units, however, are taxed under the general rules about income and deductions, including CGT. You can deduct certain costs related to becoming the holder of an REU in the year you start to hold it. You must account for changes in the value of REUs you hold over the course of the year if you hold any at either the beginning or end of an income year. This may require you to include an amount in your assessable income or may entitle you to claim a deduction. Any proceeds you receive from the disposal of REUs are assessable income. You can deduct costs you incur for ceasing to hold REUs in the year of disposal. Special rules The basic tax treatment for REU's is varied in the following circumstances: You acquire or dispose of REUs in a non-arm's length transaction, or in a transaction with an associate, for an amount other than their market value : where the disposal of an REU occurs for a purpose other than for gaining assessable income (for example, offsetting your personal carbon footprint) upon the death of the holder of the REU where you are an eligible individual primary producer and the REU is an eligible ACCU where the REU becomes or ceases to be taxable in Australia . Who is the holder of an REU? You are the holder of an REU if you are the entity in whose registry account there is an entry for that unit. If an entity holds an REU on behalf of another entity (as their nominee), the entity on whose behalf the unit is held, is taken to hold the unit, not the nominee. You hold the unit from the date it is registered in your name. Basic treatment – claiming deductions for the cost of acquiring REUs The holder of an REU, other than an ACCU issued to you by the clean energy regulator, can claim a deduction for the costs of acquiring the REU. If you become the holder of an REU because you are issued an ACCU by the Clean Energy Regulator, you can deduct expenses associated with preparing or lodging an application for a certificate of entitlement or offsets report with the clean energy regulator. may be able to deduct other expenses in relation to the eligible offset project that gave rise to the credits under general deduction provisions if you meet the criteria for claiming deductions for the project under the general taxation rules. Example: accounting for registered emissions units in the first year of holding units Annie purchases REUs on 1 July 2023 for $10,000. This is the point from which she first holds these REUs. Annie is entitled to a deduction for the cost of acquiring the REUs in the 2023–24 income year. End of example Accounting for the change in the value of REUs you hold over the income year You must include in your tax return the change in value of REUs you hold over the income year. If the value of the REUs you hold at the end of the year is: more than the value of the REUs you held at the beginning of that year, you must include the difference as part of your assessable income. less than the value of the REUs you held at the beginning of that year, you may claim a deduction equal to that difference. There are also special rules for working out the value of REUs you hold at the beginning and end of an income year. How to work out the value of REUs you held at the start of an income year The value of the REUs you hold at the start of an income year is the same as the value of the REUs you held at the end of the previous income year. If you held no REUs at the end of the prior income year, the value of REUs you hold at the beginning of the year is nil. Example: working out the value of a registered emissions unit at the start of an income year At the end of the 2023–24 income year, Annie works out she held REUs with a value of $10,000. The value of these REUs she holds at the start of the 2024–25 income year is $10,000. End of example How to work out the value of REUs you held at the end of an income year The value of an REU you hold at the end of an income year is worked out using one of three methods: FIFO (first-in first-out) cost method Actual cost method Market value method. In the first income year that you hold REUs you must choose one of these methods before you lodge your income tax return. If you do not choose the actual cost or market value method, the FIFO cost method will apply. Once a choice is made it can't be revoked and you must continue to use this method for at least the 3 income years following the first income year in which you made the choice. To work out if you are eligible to change your choice of method see Changing your method for valuing registered emissions units . Cost of an REU The cost of an REU, depends on whether it is an ACCU issued to you by the clean energy regulator or you purchased an existing REU from its holder. The cost of an ACCU issued to you by the Clean Energy Regulator is its market value immediately after you begin to hold the unit. The cost of other REUs you acquire, is the total of the expenditure that you incurred in becoming the holder of the unit that you can claim a deduction for. FIFO cost method The FIFO cost method requires you to work out the value of the REUs you hold by summing up the cost of the REUs you hold at the end of the income year, assuming that you disposed of any REUs in the same order in which you acquired them. Actual cost method The actual cost method for working out the value of the REUs you held at the end of the income year requires you to identify and add up the cost of all the units you actually hold at the end of the income year. Market value method The market value method for working out the value of the REUs you held at the end of the income year requires you to work out the market value of all the REUs you held at the end of the income year. Example: accounting for registered emissions units in the first year of holding units Annie acquires REUs on 31 July 2023 for $10,000. This is the first time she holds any REUs. She is still holding these REUs on 30 June 2024. As Annie holds REUs at the end of the income year, she must work out the change in the value of her REUs between the beginning of the income year to the end of the income year to work out whether she needs to include an amount in her assessable income or whether she can claim a deduction in her tax return. As Annie didn't hold any REUs at the beginning of the income year the value of her REUs at the beginning of the income year is nil. She makes the choice to work out the value of these units at the end of the income year using the FIFO cost method. On 30 June 2024 the value of the REUs Annie holds is $10,000. When completing her tax return for the 2023–24 income year, Annie claims a deduction of $10,000 for the cost of acquiring the REUs and includes $10,000 in her assessable income. This is the increase in the value of the REUs she holds at the end of the 2023–24 income year compared to the start of the year. End of example Changing your method for valuing REUs You can only change your choice of valuation method for an income year if you have used the same method for at least the 4 most recent income years and subject to the following limitations: You can't choose to use the actual cost method for the current income year if you used the FIFO cost method for the most recent income year in which you held REUs at the end of the income year. The choice must be made before you lodge your income tax return for the income year for which you are changing your choice. Example: changing method of accounting for registered emissions units Miran acquires REUs in the 2022–23 income year and accounts for his REUs using the FIFO method. In the 2023–2024 income year Miran wants to switch from the FIFO method to the actual cost method to account for his units. Miran is not able to switch methods because: he has not used the FIFO method for the 4 previous income years even if he could change methods, he can't choose the actual cost method as the FIFO cost method was used in the previous income year. In the 2026–27 income year, Miran will be eligible to change his choice of method but may only choose to change to the market value method. End of example Disposing of REUs The amount you are entitled to receive because you ceased to hold an REU is included in your assessable income in the income year in which you ceased to hold the unit. Example: disposal of registered emissions units Annie decides to sell all the REUs she holds. She sells them in an arm's length transaction to an unrelated party on 1 April 2025 for their market value of $12,000. As Annie has sold her REUs for $12,000 she will need to include this amount as assessable income in her 2024–2025 income tax return. End of example Worked example: accounting for REUs from purchase to disposal 2022–23 income year: Ren purchases REUs from an unrelated party and is registered as their holder on 3 February 2023 for $22,000. Ren is entitled to a deduction for $22,000 on becoming the holder in the 2022–23 income year. Ren chooses to use the market value method to account for the value of his REUs during the first year of holding these units (the 2022–23 income year). The market value of the REUs at the end of the 2022–23 income year is $25,000 which is included in Ren's assessable income for the 2022–23 income year. 2023–24 income year: Ren does not sell any of his REUs in the 2023–24 income year and the market value of the REUs decrease to $20,000 on 30 June 2024. As Ren holds no other REUs Ren claims the $5,000 decrease in market value as a deduction in his 2023–24 tax return. 2024–25 income year: In the 2024–25 income year Ren sells his REUs to a carbon service provider for their market value of $21,000. Ren includes the $21,000 as assessable income in his 2024–25 tax return. As Ren holds no other REUs, at the end of the 2024–25 income year the value of REUs Ren holds at the end of the income year is nil. Ren is entitled to a deduction of $20,000 in the 2024–25 income year. This being the decrease in the value of the REUs he held from the beginning to end of the income year. End of example Modified tax treatment of REUs The basic tax treatment of REUs is modified in 5 circumstances: non arm's length transactions, or transactions between associates, not at market value disposal of REUs for a purpose other than gaining assessable income death of the holder eligible ACCUs held by eligible individual primary producers REUs become or cease to be taxable in Australia. Non arm's length transactions or transactions between associates not at market value If the transfer of an REU was not for market value consideration, the transaction is treated for tax purposes as if the REU was sold for market value if the transferor and the transferee either: didn't deal with each other at arm's length, or are associates. This means for the purpose of working out the amount they are entitled to deduct or to be included in the assessable income of the buyer and seller respectively: the buyer is treated as having paid the seller the market value of the REUs to acquire them and the seller is treated as having received their market value from the buyer to acquire them. Example: Effect of a non-arm's length transaction: paying over market value Yash acquires REUs on 1 January 2024 for their market value of $50,000. Yash then immediately sells them to an associate, Jade Farms Pty Ltd for $100,000. As the REUs were sold for above market value to an associate, the non-arm's length transactions with associates rule applies. Yash is treated as having sold the REUs for $50,000 and Jade Farms is treated as having purchased them for $50,000. Yash will include $50,000 in his assessable income as a result of the disposal of the REUs and Jade Farms Pty Ltd may only claim a $50,000 deduction for the purchase of the units. The cost of the units will also be $50,000 for the purposes of working out the value of the units using the FIFO method or actual cost method at the end of the 2023–24 income year. End of example Example: Effect of a non-arm's length transaction paying under market value Deepak acquires REUs on 1 November 2023 for their market value of $100,000. Deepak then immediately sells them to an associate, Garnet Valley Pty Ltd for $50,000. As the REUs were sold for below market value to an associate, the non-arm's length transactions and transactions with associate rule applies. Deepak is treated as having sold the REUs for $100,000 and Garnet Valley is treated as having purchased them for $100,000. Deepak will include $100,000 in his assessable income as a result of the disposal of the REUs and Garnet Valley Pty Ltd will be able to claim a $100,000 deduction for the purchase of the units. The cost of the units will also be $100,000 for the purposes of working out the value of the units using the FIFO method or actual cost method at the end of the 2023–24 income year. End of example Disposal of REUs for a purpose other than for gaining assessable income If you cease to hold a REU and you disposed of it for a purpose other than gaining assessable income, you are required to include in your assessable income for that year an amount equal to any deductions claimed for: the cost incurred in becoming the holder of the REU the cost incurred in ceasing to hold the REU. This doesn't apply in cases where you ceased to hold the units where the non-arm's length rule applies. If the disposal is a result of a transfer, the entity who acquired the unit is treated as if they had acquired it for the disposer's cost to acquire it. That is the amount the disposer needs to include in their assessable income. If you are the disposer, you must inform the acquirer of this amount. This rule will not apply where the disposal occurs because the registered emissions unit holder has died . Example: Acquiring an REU to offset emissions from your personal residence Minh acquires and surrenders REUs to offset the carbon footprint of their home in the 2022–23 income, by instructing the issuer to cancel the REU. Minh purchased the REUs for $5,000. Minh is entitled to claim a deduction of $5,000 for the cost of the REUs in the 2022–23 income year. As Minh has disposed of the units for no consideration, no amount is included in their assessable income under the basic disposal rule. However, as Minh has disposed of the units for a private reason and not in the course of gaining assessable income, $5,000, the amount Minh was entitled to claim as a deduction on their acquisition, is included in Minh's assessable income in the 2022–23 income year. End of example Death of the holder A disposal of an REU may occur due to the death of the holder. On the death of the holder an amount is included in their assessable income equal to the deductions claimed by the holder for: the costs they incurred in becoming the holder of the REU (other than the costs of eligible offsets projects that are deductible under general deduction provisions) the costs they are entitled to deduct in ceasing to be the holder the REU. There are also specific rules for the person who acquires the unit from the deceased. If the unit passes to: the deceased's legal personal representative (LPR) the LPR is treated as having acquired the REU for the amount included in the deceased's assessable income on their death. When the deceased's LPR then passes the unit to a beneficiary, the LPR is treated as disposing of the unit for this amount. the deceased's beneficiary, whether directly or indirectly (for example, through the deceased's LPR) the beneficiary is treated as acquiring the unit for the amount included in the deceased's assessable income on their death. Example: Transfer of REUs due to the death of a holder Ronaldo is the holder of REUs. The cost of the REUs was $1,000 which Ronaldo claimed as a deduction in the year he became the holder of those units, the 2021–22 income year. He also included their value at the end of the income year, $1,000, in his assessable income for the 2021–22 income year On 1 January 2023 Ronaldo dies. $1,000 is included in Ronaldo's assessable income for the 2022–23 income year (the same value as the deduction he previously claimed). As there is also a reduction in the balance of the REUs held by Ronaldo from the start of the 2022–23 income year ($1,000) to the end of the income year (nil), a $1,000 deduction would also be allowable in Ronaldo's 2022–23 tax return. Upon grant of probate, Franklin becomes LPR, and the units transfer to Franklin as LPR. Franklin, as LPR is taken to have acquired the REUs for the same amount included in Ronaldo's assessable income in the 2022–23 income year on his death, that is $1,000. Franklin distributes all the REUs to Ronaldo's beneficiary, Wilma. Franklin as LPR is taken to have disposed of the REUs for the amount included in Ronaldo's assessable income on his death, that is, $1,000. Wilma is treated as acquiring the REUs for $1,000 (the amount included in Ronaldo's assessable income on his death). End of example Eligible ACCUs held by eligible individual primary producers If you are an eligible individual primary producer , you will receive concessional tax treatment for any: eligible ACCUs you start to hold on or after 1 July 2022 because of an eligible offsets project associated with your primary production business income attributable to eligible ACCUs you receive from a partnership or trust that carries on a primary production business eligible ACCUs or eligible income you received from a qualifying arrangement with a carbon service provider. For more information visit Taxation of Australian carbon credit units for primary producers . REUs become or cease to be taxable in Australia Changes to an entity’s tax residency status means there will be tax consequences for their registered emissions units. Whether becoming or ceasing to be an Australian resident for tax purposes, registered emissions units will need to be accounted for in the entity’s tax return for the year that the change occurs. Entity’s that are Australian residents for tax purposes will pay income tax on their registered emissions. Transferring REUs to your Australian Registry account If you have Kyoto or Australian carbon credit units that you transfer from your foreign account to your Australian Registry account (or a nominee's Registry account) how you account for them will be different depending on whether the units were held as either trading stock or a revenue asset or held otherwise (such as on capital account). Where the units were trading stock or a revenue asset, you will be treated as if just before the transfer, you had sold the units to someone else for their cost and you had immediately bought the REUs back for the same amount. As a result: their cost will be included in your assessable income and a corresponding deduction is allowable for the deemed cost of acquiring the units. Where the units were not trading stock or a revenue asset, you will be treated as if just before the transfer, you had sold the unit to someone else for its market value just before the transfer, and you had immediately bought the REUs back for the same amount. This means at this time: you will have a CGT event and need to calculate whether you have made a capital gain or loss for which you are taken to have received their market value, and are entitled to deduction for their market value. REUs becoming taxable in Australia In some cases, an entity may acquire registered emissions units while they are a foreign resident for tax purposes and not subject to income tax in Australia. When the entity becomes an Australian resident for tax purposes, the units are treated as if they had been acquired for market value and the entity starts holding the REUs at the time immediately after the entity became an Australian resident for tax purposes. The cost of the REU is its market value at the date the entity became an Australian resident for tax purposes. Example: Units becoming taxable in Australia - Foreign Resident becoming an Australian resident for tax purposes Jaya is a resident of New Zealand for tax purposes. They hold 10,000 REUs on the New Zealand Emissions Trading Register. Jaya decides to move to Sydney and becomes an Australian resident for tax purposes. They transfer their REUs from the New Zealand Emissions Trading Register to the Australian National Registry of Emissions Units. Before the transfer occurs, Jaya is treated as having sold their REUs to someone else for their market value. The REUs are then treated as being bought back by Jaya in Australia for their market value. Jaya will be able to claim the market value of these REUs as a deduction under Division 420. End of example REUs ceasing to be taxable in Australia An entity may be an Australian resident for tax purposes when it acquires an REU but later becomes a foreign resident for income tax purposes and is no longer subject to Australian income tax on their REUs. In these circumstances the entity is treated as having sold its REUs for their market value just before they cease to be a resident in Australia and no longer subject to Australian income tax. The market value of the REU is assessable income for the entity in this year. As the entity is no longer an Australian resident for tax purposes, any future changes in the value of their REUs at the start and end of the subsequent income years is ignored, unless the entity becomes an Australian resident for tax purposes again. Example: Units ceasing to be taxable in Australia – an Australian resident for tax purposes becoming a foreign resident Cheng is an Australian resident for tax purposes in the 2022–23 income year. They hold 20,000 REUs. Cheng decides to relocate to Auckland, New Zealand and becomes a New Zealand resident for tax purposes and ceases to be subject to Australian income tax on their REUs. As part of the move the 20,000 REUs are transferred from the Australian National Registry of Emissions Units to the New Zealand Emissions Trading Register. The REUs are treated as having been sold for market value just before Cheng ceased to be an Australian resident for tax purposes. The market value of the REUs is included as assessable income in Cheng's income tax return for the 2022–23 income year. End of example QC 101209 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).