If you are finding it hard to lodge and pay on time | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search If you are finding it hard to lodge and pay on time If you can't lodge or pay by the due date, contact us as soon as possible. Last updated 5 September 2023 Print or Download Overview If you're finding it hard to lodge and pay in full and on time, you should contact us before the due date. We'll then work with you to find a solution. Your obligations It is important to remember that it is your responsibility to meet your obligations, even if you use a tax agent. You can have an authorised representative or your tax agent contact us to discuss your situation. It is important to lodge on time as this ensures that your information is up to date, which provides you with certainty of the amount you need to pay. Paying on time and in full prevents the accrual of additional interest charges. Payment plan If you are finding it hard to pay by the due date, you may be able to enter into a payment plan. Use our online payment plan estimator to work out a payment plan you can afford. You can also use it to find out how quickly you can pay off a tax debt and how much interest you’ll be charged. A general interest charge (GIC) will apply to any amount not paid by the due date. Setting up a payment plan that finalises payment of what you owe within the shortest period of time will help reduce the amount of GIC you have to pay. Once you have worked out a suitable payment scenario based on your circumstances, you can use it as a guide to set up a payment plan. You can refer to these resources, if you need help with paying . You can estimate a payment plan using the payment plan estimator and understand the penalties we impose when you fail to lodge on time . For further assistance, you can contact us . If you can't lodge or pay in full and on time, contact us before the due date. QC 33687 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).