GST - Goods and Services Tax | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search GST - Goods and Services Tax Explains how goods and services tax (GST) works and what you need to do to meet your GST obligations. How GST works Explains how GST works and what you need to do to meet your GST obligations. Registering for GST Work out if, when and how you need to register for goods and services tax (GST). When to charge GST (and when not to) Explains who has to charge GST, and what taxable sales, GST-free sales and input-taxed sales are. Tax invoices Explains when to provide a tax invoice, what it must include and dealing with non-taxable sales and rounding. Claiming GST credits Report and pay GST amounts and claim GST credits by lodging a BAS or an annual GST return. Accounting for GST in your business Choosing an accounting method, thinking about cash flow and GST and the advantages of keeping good records. Lodging your BAS or annual GST return Report and pay GST amounts and claim GST credits by lodging a BAS or an annual GST return. If your business changes or ceases When you must cancel your GST registration and how to complete your last GST activity statement. How we can help Video tips, online answers to your questions and a range of phone services to help you meet your GST obligations. ITC estimators Understand the risks and governance required when using an Input Tax Credit (ITC) estimator for calculating GST credits. In detail Detailed information about goods and services tax (GST). QC 22410 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).