Grants and sponsorship | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Grants and sponsorship Check how to apply GST when supplying a benefit in return for a grant or sponsorship money. Last updated 29 May 2023 Print or Download Grants If your organisation or business is registered for GST, or is required to be, and receives grant funding (e.g., from a government body or private foundation), you do not have to pay GST on the funding payment unless you make a supply in return for the payment. For more information, see: Grants and sponsorship for not-for-profits GSTR 2012/2 Financial assistance payments . Sponsorship If your organisation or business is registered for GST, or is required to be, and enters a sponsorship arrangement, you may be obligated to pay GST. When undertaking fundraising events , you often receive support or sponsorship in the form of money. In return for the sponsorship payment, your organisation or business may provide advertising, signage, naming rights or other types of benefits. This means that the sponsor receives something of value in return for the sponsorship, so the sponsorship payment is consideration for the supply of the benefit and is not a gift. If your organisation or business is registered for GST, you must pay GST on the supply of the benefit you provide in return for the sponsorship you receive. As the benefit provided is a taxable sale you must include it in your BAS . Sponsors may also be able to claim GST credits . If your organisation or business is not registered for GST but receives a sponsorship payment for which you provide a benefit, it must be included in your GST turnover calculation. Check how to apply GST when supplying a benefit in return for a grant or sponsorship money. QC 22428 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).