Instalment notices for GST and PAYG instalments | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Instalment notices for GST and PAYG instalments Find out about if you'll receive a quarterly GST or pay as you go (PAYG) instalment notice instead of a BAS. Last updated 1 May 2025 Print or Download You'll receive a quarterly goods and services tax (GST) or pay as you go (PAYG) instalment notice, instead of a business activity statement (BAS), if you: report and pay your GST or PAYG instalments quarterly pay using the instalment amount advised by us (option 1) have no other reporting requirements. Your instalment notice will have a: GST instalment amount displayed at G21 (if relevant) PAYG instalment amount at T7 . Paying your instalment amount You need to pay the total GST and PAYG instalment amount by the due date on the notice. If you receive your notice by post, you don't need to send the notice to us with your payment. Keep the instalment notice for your records. Varying your instalment amount If you think that paying the instalment amount on your notice will result in you paying more (or less) than your expected tax for the income year, you can vary your instalment amount. If you don’t want to vary, you can pay for the quarter. Then you’ll: make a payment or receive a refund of GST when you lodge your Annual GST return pay income tax or receive a refund when you lodge your tax return. For more information, see: How to vary your PAYG instalments Varying your GST instalment amount GST instalment notice – how to complete your quarterly notice . Receiving your PAYG and GST instalment notice electronically We no longer send paper instalment notices for activity statements lodged electronically through: myGov accounts linked to the ATO Online services for business Online services for agents the practitioner lodgment service (PLS) Standard Business Reporting (SBR)-enabled software. You or your registered tax or BAS agent can access the instalment amount online 3 to 4 days after the activity statement generate date . If you don't use an agent and we have your email address, we'll send you an email or SMS 21 days before the payment is due. Log in to our online services to check your contact details. If you don't use our online services or a registered agent to lodge your activity statements you will continue to receive your instalment notice by post. If you are ready to make the change to electronic lodgment, you can create an online account. Activity statement generate dates Check when activity statements generate throughout the financial year. GST instalment notice - how to complete your quarterly notice Instructions for completing your quarterly GST instalment notice (Form S). QC 33682 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).