Seasonal Worker Programme and Pacific Labour Scheme | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Seasonal Worker Programme and Pacific Labour Scheme How to withhold tax for workers in the Seasonal Worker Programme (SWP) or Pacific Labour Scheme (PLS). Last updated 11 June 2025 Print or Download Transition to the Pacific Australia Labour Mobility scheme The SWP, which started on 1 July 2012, and the PLS,, which started on 1 July 2018 are complementary schemes and apply to existing workers employed before 4 April 2022. From July 2023, the SWP and the PLS have been consolidated under the Pacific Australia Labour Mobility (PALM) scheme . This scheme applies to new workers employed from that date. It is administered by the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations and the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. If you employ these workers, see Employers of PALM scheme workers . The arrangements for existing workers employed under the SWP or PLS will continue to apply. If you employ these workers, use the information on this page. Seasonal Worker Programme If you have workers in the SWP, you must withhold tax at a flat rate of 15% on all payments made to them. Workers under the SWP are non-residents of Australia for tax purposes. They may become a resident for tax purposes if they stay in Australia after they finish working on the program. These workers are protected by Australian workplace laws, in the same way as Australian workers. Pacific Labour Scheme If you have PLS workers, you need to withhold tax at resident rates using regular tax tables . PLS workers are considered to be Australian residents for tax purposes. They are protected by Australian workplace laws, in the same way as Australian workers. Seasonal Worker Programme and visa class changes Seasonal workers can continue to be taxed at the concessional rate of 15% even where their visa class changed due to COVID-19, and they: participated in the SWP on a subclass 403 visa continue to participate in the SWP on a different temporary visa (for example, subclass 408 visa ) on or after 24 March 2020. Reporting Every time you pay SWP and PLS workers, you must report the amounts you pay and the tax you withhold using Single Touch Payroll (STP). At the end of each financial year, you will need to finalise your reporting through STP along with your reporting for all other employees (see End-of-year finalisation through STP ). If you have an exemption from STP reporting, at the end of each financial year you must provide payment summaries to seasonal and PLS workers. You will also need to include copies of these payment summaries – along with any other you have issued – when you lodge your pay as you go (PAYG) withholding payment summary annual report (see Annual reporting ). SWP workers are not required to lodge tax returns unless they have other Australian income outside of the program. Seasonal workers should not include their income from the SWP in their tax returns. PLS workers are required to lodge tax returns and must include other income earned in Australia and outside of Australia. Excess withholding tax from a SWP worker If you realise you mistakenly withheld too much tax from a SWP worker within the same financial year, you can refund the tax to them. If you have already paid the tax withheld amount to us and lodged an activity statement, you should revise your activity statement to receive a refund for the amounts incorrectly withheld and paid. If you find out about the mistake after the end of the financial year, the worker must request a refund of the excess withholding tax from us. See Refund of excess withholding tax for a foreign resident PALM ).   QC 25161 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).