Deductions for repairs, maintenance and replacement expenses | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Deductions for repairs, maintenance and replacement expenses Check what deductions your business can claim for repairs, maintenance, and replacement expenses. Last updated 20 June 2024 Print or Download You can claim a tax deduction for expenses relating to repairs, maintenance or replacement of machinery, tools or premises you use to produce business income, as long as the expenses are not capital expenses. A capital expense is money spent to purchase assets like plant and equipment. What you can claim You can claim expenses from allowable repairs, maintenance or replacement, including: painting conditioning gutters maintaining plumbing repairing electrical appliances mending leaks replacing broken parts of fences or broken glass in windows repairing machinery. You don't have to own the property or item that is repaired in order to claim a deduction. A repair is one that restores the efficiency of function of the asset without changing its character, in order to maintain it in its original state. For example, you can fix defects or renew parts but you can't totally reconstruct something. What you can’t claim You can't claim capital expenses , such as: substantial improvements to an item or property – for example, installing a new ceiling repairs made to machinery, tools or property immediately after you purchase or acquire them – this is because the price you paid reflects the item’s condition. You can generally claim a deduction for capital expenses under the: general depreciation provisions – for items capital works provisions – for property. QC 33727 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).