Types of fringe benefits | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Types of fringe benefits Find out which benefits are subject to fringe benefits tax (FBT) and how to work out the taxable value of the benefits. Benefits quick reference Use this list of common benefits to quickly find the information you need about FBT. FBT on cars, other vehicles, parking and tolls How FBT applies to cars, other motor vehicles, electric cars, car leasing, car parking and road tolls. Entertainment-related fringe benefits Work out if FBT applies to food, drink or recreation, and any associated travel or accommodation. Expense payment fringe benefits Check if you provide expense payment fringe benefits to your employees, and calculate the taxable value of the benefits. Loan and debt waiver fringe benefits Find out if FBT applies when you lend money to an employee or forgive their debt, and how much you pay. Accommodation and location related fringe benefits FBT on housing, board or living-away-from-home allowance, and concessions for remote or overseas areas and relocations. Property fringe benefits What to do if you give your employees property fringe benefits, such as physical goods, real estate or shares. Residual fringe benefits Check if you provide residual fringe benefits to your employees, and calculate the taxable value of the benefits. QC 71123 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).