PAYG withholding for deceased employees | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search PAYG withholding for deceased employees How to meet your tax, super and employment termination payment obligations when an employee dies. Last updated 11 June 2025 Print or Download Death of an employee Generally, you should not withhold amounts from salary or wages paid after the death of an employee. This applies to income that was earned before their death but paid afterwards. Similarly, you should not withhold amounts from payments for unused annual leave or unused long service leave paid after their death. You may need to withhold from a death benefit employment termination payment (death benefit ETP). This represents any amount that would have been an paid in ETP if the employee was alive at the time of payment. Examples of payments in a death benefit ETP can include: unused sick leave unused rostered days off a payment for redundancy or retirement (a 'golden handshake'). Payer guide The following table provides a step-by-step guide for payments made to a deceased employee. If you report through Single Touch Payroll, you can choose whether to provide a payment summary. For more information, see: Single Touch Payroll Phase 1 – death benefit ETP Single Touch Payroll Phase 2 – paying an ETP to a death beneficiary Guide for payments made to a deceased employee Step Action 1 Prepare a payment summary for payments made to the employee in the current financial year before the date of death showing: gross payments amounts withheld. 2 Prepare the employee's entitlement including: payments for work or services (including retrospective pay and bonus or commission payments) accrued but not paid before the death of the employee. If an estate tax return is required these payments are included in assessable income. payments for unused annual and long service leave which are tax-free. If an estate tax return is required these payments are not included in assessable income. Do not: withhold an amount from these payments include details of these payments in the employee's payment summary. 3 Calculate the amount of death benefit ETP. Withhold the required amount as listed in Schedule 11 – Tax table for employment termination payments . 4 Payments for work or services made after the death of the employee are made to either the: estate of the deceased employee person entitled to the money under the relevant law, industrial award or agreement. These amounts must not be shown on the deceased employee's payment summary. However, the payer may wish to provide the estate, trustee or executor of the deceased employee with a statement about these payments to assist in completion of the income tax return for the deceased estate . QC 27088 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).