Payments with special rules | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Payments with special rules Special rules apply when calculating the amount of tax to withhold for certain employees. Last updated 11 June 2025 Print or Download Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander artists who live or work in isolated areas If your business pays an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander artist for artistic works, the artist is not required to quote an Australian business number (ABN) if they work or live in an isolated area, known as a special or ordinary zone A geographic region . You will not be required to withhold tax, even though the artist has not quoted an ABN. Artistic works include: graphic work, photography, sculpture, painting or collage a work of artistic craftsmanship the performance or presentation by a person, or participation by a person in a musical performance, play, dance, entertainment, display, exhibition or similar activity of a cultural nature. Employees who work in a foreign country If you make payments to Australian employees working overseas, you have the same tax obligations as if they were working in Australia. See Employees who work in a foreign country and PAYG payment summary for foreign employment . Some payments for foreign services that relate to certain development projects, charitable activities or government activities are exempt from tax . You don't have to withhold amounts from these payments. Non-cash payments If you provide a non-cash payment (including property or services) in any form except money, you will still be required to meet your withholding obligations. The withholding provisions ensure that a similar outcome is achieved for payments made in cash or non-cash payment. There is no requirement to withhold under pay as you go (PAYG) withholding if the payment is a fringe benefit or a share or right under the employee share scheme . The amount you are required to withhold and send to us is the amount you would have been required to withhold if the payment had been in the form of money. You will need to: calculate the amount according to the current market value of the non-cash payment when the payment is provided use the relevant tax withholding rates applicable to your payee depending on whether they are an employee or contractor, as well as whether the payee has provided an ABN. When to withhold You must withhold and pay to us an amount before providing a non-cash payment in the same way you would have if the payment was in the form of money. Example: non-cash benefit provisions Nick is a building contractor who has entered into a voluntary agreement with Mike. Nick proposes to give Mike his old utility van as payment for work Mike has completed for him over a fortnight. If the payment had been made in the form of money, Nick would be required to withhold an amount from the payment and send it to us. Under the non-cash benefit provisions, Nick is required to withhold an amount and send it to us before the benefit (the utility van) is provided to Mike. Nick can recover the amount of withholding paid to us as a debt from Mike. Nick would be required to provide Mike with a payment summary and Mike will receive a credit for the amount that Nick has forwarded to us. Nick may also offset the whole or part of Mike's debt (the amount of withholding paid by Nick to us) against any amount that is, or becomes, due and payable by Nick to Mike. This right to offset will assist to recover an amount owed by Nick that has been paid to us. End of example   Example: no ABN withholding Your business agrees to do cleaning worth $1,000 for an advertising business in exchange for $1,000 worth of advertising. If the advertising business does not quote their ABN to you, you must pay a withholding amount to us before you deliver the services or goods (see Withholding if ABN not provided ). In this situation, you would become a supplier to the advertising business. Unless you have an ABN and quote it to them, they would also need to pay a withholding amount to us before they supply the advertising to you. End of example Personal services income Personal services income (PSI) is earned mainly by your personal efforts and skills. If you operate a company, partnership or trust that does not pass the tests for a personal services business, some income your employees earn may be PSI. When the PSI rules apply, your business will have additional PAYG obligations for the amount belonging to each individual who performed the services. Foreign resident withholding A foreign resident is not an Australian resident for tax purposes. This can include individuals, companies, partnerships and trusts. Learn more about: withholding from a foreign resident rates that apply to individuals who are foreign residents for tax purposes . To work out the tax you need to withhold from payments to employees and other workers, including working holiday makers and PALM visa holders, use the tax withheld calculators . Foreign resident entertainment, sports, construction and casino gaming activities Payers are required to withhold prescribed amounts from specific payments made to foreign resident payees who work or take part in: entertainment or sports activities construction and related activities casino gaming junket activities. Foreign resident payees include all foreign individual and non-individual entities (for example, companies, partnerships, trusts, government organisations and superannuation funds). These special rules don't apply to payments made to foreign residents if: they are engaged as employees the payment is interest, dividends and royalties . Find out more about foreign resident entertainment, sports, construction and casino gaming activities . Payees in certain industries and occupations Some industries and occupations may have different rules or conditions when calculating the amount to withhold. These include: employees of the Seasonal Worker Programme (SWP), Pacific Labour Scheme (PLS) or Pacific Australia Labour Mobility (PALM) scheme household employees performing artists doing promotional work religious practitioners. There is also a different withholding rate for horticultural or shearing workers who are not part of the SWP, PLS or PALM scheme. Foreign resident entertainment, sports, construction and gaming junket activities PAYG withholding on payments to foreign residents for entertainment, sport, construction or gaming junket activities. Seasonal Worker Program How to withhold tax for workers in the Seasonal Worker Programme (SWP) or Pacific Labour Scheme (PLS). Employers of PALM scheme workers If you have workers in the PALM scheme you need to be an approved employer, withhold tax and provide income statements. Household employees Householders may have to withhold tax from payments to household employees such as nannies, gardeners or housekeepers. Performing artists contracted to perform promotional activity How to withhold tax from payments to Australian performing artists contracted to perform in a promotional activity. Religious practitioners If your business pays a religious practitioner or religious institution for their services, tax may need to be withheld. Natural resource payments You must withhold tax from natural resource payments to foreign residents unless we tell you that you don't need to. QC 27071 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).