Keeping crypto records | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Keeping crypto records Which records you need to keep for crypto assets and crypto transactions and how long to keep them. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Crypto asset records you should keep You must keep records of each of your crypto assets and every transaction, to work out if you have a made a capital gain or loss. For your crypto assets, you should keep: receipts when you buy, transfer or dispose of crypto assets a record of the date of each transaction a record of what the transaction is for and who the other party is (this can just be their crypto asset address) exchange records a record of the value of the crypto asset in Australian dollars  at the time of each transaction records of agent, accountant and legal costs digital wallet records and keys a record of software costs that relate to managing your tax affairs. You need to keep details for each crypto asset as they are separate CGT assets. Keeping good records is essential for meeting your tax obligations. Tips for protecting crypto asset records Keeping good records are important as crypto can be volatile. Our record keeping tips may help safeguard you against loss of information, which could happen at any time. Keep these records during the period you hold or transact using crypto: Export your transaction history regularly to protect you in case of loss of access to your account. Set yourself a reminder to export your transaction history at least every 3 months. Before closing an account, export your complete transaction history. Find a reputable Australian crypto tax calculator – there are free and low-cost services you can use to sync your exchange and wallet accounts. Use a blockchain explorer or contact the crypto exchange's customer service if you need to recreate lost records. How long to keep records Keep records for 5 years from the later of: when you prepare or obtain the records when transactions or acts are complete the year that the CGT event happens. You should keep records long enough to cover your amendment period (usually 2 or 4 years) for an assessment that uses information from the record. Your records must be in: English or be translatable to English in writing, however they can be electronic or paper. QC 69955 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).