Taxable, assessable and exempt income | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Taxable, assessable and exempt income Income you receive may be taxable, assessable, exempt, or non-assessable non-exempt – find out if you need to report it. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Assessable income Most of the income you earn will be assessable income. Assessable income is income that you pay tax on, if you earn enough to exceed the tax-free threshold. Examples of assessable income you must declare include: salary and wages tips, gratuities and other payments for your services some allowances, such as for clothing and laundry interest from bank accounts dividends and other income from investments bonuses and overtime an employee receives commission a salesperson receives pensions rent. You may also receive some income in the form of goods or services instead of money. You need to declare the market value of these goods or services as assessable income in your tax return. For example, you may receive clothing, makeup, tools, or accessories from subscribers or fans of your online platforms, or businesses looking to work with you. If you receive your income as cash including cash cheques, you must declare the cash as income in your tax return. You can usually claim the tax-free threshold of $18,200 on one source of income you earn in the income year. Taxable income Your taxable income is your assessable income minus any allowable deductions. Your taxable income is used to work out how much tax you need to pay. Assessable income − allowable deductions = taxable income Allowable deductions don't directly reduce the amount of tax you pay, they reduce your taxable income, which in turn reduces the amount of tax you need to pay. Exempt income Exempt income is income that you don't pay tax on (that is, it's tax-free). You may still need to include this income in your tax return for use in other tax calculations. Examples of exempt income can include: some government pensions and payments , including the invalidity pension some education payments. If the only income you receive during an income year is exempt income, you don't have to pay any income tax on it. Non-assessable, Non-exempt income Non-assessable, Non-exempt income amounts are those which you don't include as income in your tax return. You can't claim a deduction against non-assessable, non-exempt income. Non-assessable, non-exempt income can include: the tax-free component of an employment termination payment (ETP) super co-contributions income earned by foreign resident workers under the Pacific Australia Labour Mobility (PALM) scheme or former seasonal worker programme certain disaster payments and grants . QC 72117 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).