Paying the Medicare levy surcharge | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Paying the Medicare levy surcharge Find out when you have to pay the Medicare levy surcharge and how much you will pay. Last updated 5 May 2026 Print or Download When you pay the Medicare levy surcharge You may have to pay the Medicare levy surcharge (MLS) if: you, your spouse and your dependent children do not have an appropriate level of private patient hospital cover you earn above a certain income . The MLS is an amount you pay on top of the Medicare levy. If you take out an appropriate level of private patient hospital cover for yourself, your spouse and all your dependants, you will not pay the MLS. How much Medicare levy surcharge you will pay The MLS rate of 1%, 1.25% or 1.5% is levied on: your taxable income total reportable fringe benefits, and any amount on which family trust distribution tax has been paid. We use a special definition of income (called income for MLS purposes ) to work out if you have to pay the MLS and the rate you will pay. This income is different from your taxable income. You will not pay the MLS for 2025–26 if your income is less than the base income threshold, which is: $101,000 for singles $202,000 (plus $1,500 for each dependent child after the first one) for families. You can use the Income tax estimator to work out your MLS. For income thresholds and rates for current and previous years, see Medicare levy surcharge income, thresholds and rates . Medicare levy surcharge if you had a spouse If you had a spouse for the full year, you do not have to pay the MLS if: your family income exceeds the $202,000 (plus $1,500 for each dependent child after the first one), but your own income for MLS purposes was $27,222 or less. If you had a new spouse, or you separated from your spouse, during the year: you may be liable for MLS for the number of days you were single – if your income for MLS purposes was more than the single surcharge threshold of $101,000 you may be liable for MLS for the number of days you had a spouse or dependent children – if your own income for MLS purposes was more than the family surcharge threshold of $202,000 (plus $1,500 for each dependent child after the first one). We will work out if you need to pay the MLS based on the information you provide in your tax return. We will include MLS with your Medicare levy. It will show as one amount on your notice of assessment, called Medicare levy and surcharge . Medicare levy surcharge in your tax return We work out if you need to pay the MLS and the amount you need to pay when we process your tax return each year. The MLS is not covered in tax withheld by your employer. If you need to pay the MLS, this amount will be added to your tax liability and may lead to a reduced refund or tax bill. Change in circumstances during the year If circumstances for yourself, your spouse or your dependent children change at any time during the year, you may become liable to pay the MLS. Changes in circumstances may relate to your: income spouse dependants private health insurance. If you travel overseas and cancel your private patient hospital cover during that time, you may be liable to pay the Medicare levy surcharge (MLS).   Appropriate level of private patient hospital cover If you don't have an appropriate level of private patient hospital cover you may have to pay the Medicare levy surcharge. QC 71227 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).