Lifetime health cover | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Lifetime health cover LHC is a loading added to your hospital premium if you didn't have private hospital cover from the year you turn 31. Last updated 5 May 2026 Print or Download Lifetime health cover loading Lifetime Health Cover (LHC) is a government initiative that encourages you to purchase and maintain private patient hospital cover earlier in life. If you haven't taken out and maintained private patient hospital cover from the year you turn 31 and then you decide to take it out later in life, you'll pay a 2% LHC loading on top of your premium for every year you are aged over 30. For example, if you take out private patient hospital cover when you are 40 years old, you could pay an extra 20% on the cost of this cover per year for 10 years. If you wait until you are 50 years old, you could pay 40% more per year for 10 years. The maximum LHC loading that can be applied is 70%. Once you have paid LHC loading for 10 years of continuous cover, you will no longer have to pay this loading. If you cancel your private patient hospital cover after paying for the LHC loading for 10 continuous years, you may become liable to pay the LHC loading again if you take out another private patient hospital cover later. When you don't have to pay the LHC loading You don't have to pay the LHC loading if any of the following apply to you: you are aged under 31 years old you hold an appropriate level of private patient hospital cover before you reach your LHC 'base day' for many people, LHC base day is 1 July following their 31st birthday this can change depending on personal circumstances such as if you are overseas on this day you are a new migrant to Australia, and are aged 31 or over, and you had hospital cover within 12 months of being registered for full Medicare benefits you were born on or before 1 July 1934. LHC loadings apply only to private patient hospital cover – they don't apply to general treatment cover (also known as ancillary or extras cover). LHC and the private health insurance rebate The government does not pay the private health insurance rebate on the LHC loading component of a policy. Example: no private health insurance rebate on LHC loading On 1 July 2025, Rebecca pays a premium of $220 for 2 months of her private patient hospital cover. Due to Rebecca’s circumstances, her premium includes LHC loading of 10%. The premium eligible for the private health insurance rebate is $200 only, because the LHC loading of $20 does not qualify for this rebate. Rebecca's income is $59,000 and she is eligible for the 24.288%% rebate. She receives a rebate of $49, which is 24.288% of the $200 premium eligible for the rebate. Rebecca does not receive any rebate on the LHC loading of $20. End of example See Lifetime health cover External Link and Lifetime health cover calculator External Link for more information and to calculate your LHC.   QC 49963 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).