Keeping records for depreciating assets | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Keeping records for depreciating assets Which records to keep for depreciating assets so you can claim a deduction and show how you calculate work use. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download How long to keep records You must keep written evidence and records for depreciating assets from the time you buy them. You need to keep your written evidence and records for 5 years from the date of your last claim for decline in value. Your written evidence and records can be in paper or electronic form. We may ask that you show us your written evidence and records during the 5 years. It is important that you have sufficient evidence to support your claims. Types of records you need For depreciating assets, you must keep the following written evidence and records: a document (such as a receipt) which shows the name of the business you purchased the asset from the cost of the asset a description of the asset you purchased when you purchased the asset the date the document was produced. when you started using the item, or install it ready to use, for both private and work-related purposes how you work out your percentage of work-related use, such as a diary that shows the purpose of and use of the item for work one of either a copy of the Income Tax Assessment (Effective Life of Depreciating Assets) Determination 2025 you use to work out the decline in value of the item how you work out the effective life if you don't use the Effective Life of a Depreciating Assets Determination 2025. which method you chose to calculate the decline in value and how you calculated it. Records for percentage of work use You must keep records that show how you work out your percentage of work-related use, such as a diary. If you are keeping a diary, you should: keep it for a continuous 4 week period fill it in at the time you undertake the work activity, not retrospectively include sufficient detail to support your calculations. For more on the format and importance of keeping records, see records you need to keep . You can record your expenses or upload a photo of receipts or invoices in the myDeductions tool in the ATO app. myDeductions tool QC 72152 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).