Assets costing more than $300 | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Assets costing more than $300 Find out how to claim a decline in value deduction for a depreciating asset you use for work and cost more than $300. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Claiming the decline in value of depreciating assets Assets that have a limited effective life and can reasonably be expected to lose value over the time they are used are depreciating assets . For depreciating assets that you use while performing your work duties and cost more than $300, you can claim a deduction for the cost over the effective life of the asset. The amount you claim as a deduction over the asset's effective life is called the decline in value. Alternatively, you may choose to allocate the depreciating asset to a low-value pool where its cost is less than $1,000. For depreciating assets that cost $300 or less, see Assets costing $300 or less . The amount you can claim for the decline in value deduction depends on all of the following: methods for calculating decline in value effective life of a depreciating asset work-related use . Methods for calculating decline in value You will need to choose either the prime cost method or the diminishing value method to calculate the decline in value for each depreciating asset you hold. You can choose whichever method you prefer, however the method you choose may affect how much you can claim as a deduction. Once you have made a choice, you can't change the method in future income years for that asset. If you get the asset from an associate, such as your spouse, you must continue using the same method that they chose to depreciate the asset. Select one of the following methods to calculate the decline in value of a depreciating asset: prime cost method diminishing value method . Prime cost method The prime cost method assumes that the value of a depreciating asset decreases uniformly over its effective life. Calculate the annual decline in value using the formula: Asset's cost × (Days held ÷ 365) × (100% ÷ Asset's effective life) If you use the depreciating asset for both work and private purposes, you can only claim the percentage of work-related use as the decline in value deduction. Diminishing value method The diminishing value method assumes that the value of a depreciating asset decreases faster earlier in its effective life. For assets held post 9 May 2006, calculate the annual decline in value in the income year where the asset's start time occurs using the formula: Base value × (Days held ÷ 365) × (200% ÷ Asset's effective life) If you use the depreciating asset for both work and private purposes, you can only claim the percentage of work-related use as the decline in value deduction. The base value for the income year in which the asset's start time occurs is the asset's cost. In future years, the base value is the asset's opening adjustable value for that year, plus any amount for costs to improve the asset, incurred in the year. Effective life of a depreciating asset A depreciating asset's effective life is how long it can be expected to be used by any entity for a specified purpose, including the purpose of producing assessable income. An asset begins to decline in value when you first use or install it for any purpose. This is known as the start time . The effective life involves considering how the asset will be used. To calculate the decline in value, you can use the effective life: that is in force at the time to calculate the decline in value you estimate based on your expected pattern of use of the asset. For more information on the Commissioner of Taxation's determination of effective life, see the latest Legislative Instrument LI 2025/20 Income tax (Effective Life of Depreciating Assets) Determination 2025. You can recalculate the effective life of an asset if: you make an improvement to the asset that increases its cost by 10% or more in the income year circumstances arise that result in your initial estimate of the effective life being inaccurate. For more information on recalculating the effective life of an asset see Effective life of a depreciating asset. Start time of a depreciating asset The start time of a depreciating asset is when you first use it, or install it ready to use for any purpose, including a private purpose. Assets begin decline in value from their start time, but you can only claim a deduction for the decline in value when you start using it for work. If you first buy an asset for private use, then later use it for work, you need to work out the decline in value from when you first started using it for a private purpose, that is, its start time. You will also need to work out your work-related use of a depreciating asset and show how you work this out. If you start using a depreciating asset for work after its effective life has ended and it has fully declined in value, you can't claim any deduction in relation to the asset. Work-related use You can claim your work-related use of a depreciating asset. If you use a depreciating asset for both work and private purposes, you must keep records (for example, a diary) to show how you calculate your percentage of work and private use. If you are keeping a diary, you should: keep it for a continuous 4 week period fill it in at the time you undertake the activity, not retrospectively include sufficient detail to support your calculations. If you record a continuous 4-week period that represents your work-related use of your depreciating assets, you can use it across the rest of the income year to work out your full deduction. However, if your work pattern changes substantially you need to create a new record. You must reduce your deduction for the decline in value to account for your private use. Example: work out the decline in value deduction adjusted to remove private use Julian is an employee gardener. On 1 July 2025, he buys an electric hedge trimmer for $680. Julian also uses the hedge trimmer at home when he is working in his own garden. Based on his records, he works out that he used the hedge trimmer: 20% of the time for private purposes 80% of the time for work purposes. As the hedge trimmer cost more than $300, he must calculate the decline in value. Julian can only claim a deduction for his work-related use (80%) of the hedge trimmer. Julian uses the published effective life of 4 years and calculates the decline in value using the prime cost method for the first year as below: $680 × (365 ÷ 365) × (100% ÷ 4 years) = $170 Julian can claim a deduction of $136 ($170 × 80%). End of example Calculating your deduction To help you work out your deduction for the decline in value for a depreciating asset, use our depreciation and capital allowances tool . Depreciation and capital allowances tool Alternatively, you can manually calculate the decline in value using the formula for the method you have chosen. QC 72151 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).