Keeping records of shares and units | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Keeping records of shares and units How to identify which shares you have sold, when you acquired them, and the records you need to keep. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Records you need to keep When you sell your shares in companies or units in managed funds, most of the records you need will be given to you by the company, the fund manager or your stockbroker. These records generally include: the date of purchase the purchase amount details of any non-assessable payments made to you the date and amount of any calls (if shares were partly paid) the sale price (if you sell them) any commissions paid to brokers when you buy or sell details of events, for example share splits, share consolidations, returns of capital, takeovers, mergers, demergers and bonus share issues. You may buy parcels of shares in the same company at different times. You need to keep details for each parcel as they are separate CGT assets. Identifying when shares or units were acquired When you sell only some of your shares or units in a company or trust, you need to be able to identify which ones you have sold and when you acquired them. This is important because shares or units bought at different times may have different costs. This will affect your capital gain or loss. Share transactions through the Australian Stock Exchange are recorded in the Clearing House Electronic Subregister System (CHESS). If you have the relevant records from your CHESS holding statement or your issuer sponsored statement, you can select which shares you have sold and identify their cost. Example: identifying when shares or units were acquired Boris is an investor. He: bought 1,000 shares in a company in 2024 for $5 each bought 3,000 shares in the same company in 2025 for $10 each sold 1,500 of the shares in 2026 for $8 each. Boris must decide which of his shares in the company he is selling and which he is retaining. He decides to sell 1,500 of the shares he bought in 2025 in order to claim a capital loss in the 2026 income year. As a result, Boris will still have: 1,000 shares with an acquisition cost of $5 1,500 shares with an acquisition cost of $10. If Boris later decides to sell more of his shares in the company, he can choose which of his remaining shares he is selling. Boris should keep records of which shares he has bought and sold so he can show that he has calculated his gains or losses correctly on any sales of shares. End of example QC 66046 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).