Demergers CGT rollover for shareholders and unit holders | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Demergers CGT rollover for shareholders and unit holders Find out if you should defer your gain or loss when a corporate group demerges. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download How a demerger affects shareholders When a corporate group demerges, you can choose to rollover (defer) the capital gain or loss you make as a shareholder. A demerger involves the restructuring of a corporate or fixed trust group by splitting its operations into 2 or more entities or groups. The shareholders or unit holders in the head entity of the group acquire a direct interest in an entity that was formerly part of the group (the demerged entity). If you choose a rollover: you disregard any capital gain or loss made under the demerger your new interests in the demerged entity are acquired on the date of the demerger – however, if a proportion of your original interests was acquired before 20 September 1985 (pre-CGT), the same proportion of your new interests in the demerged entity is treated as pre-CGT assets. If you don't choose a rollover: you can't disregard any capital gain or loss made under the demerger all your new interests in the demerged entity are acquired on the date of the demerger. Whether or not you choose a rollover, you must recalculate the cost base  of your remaining original interests in the head entity and your new interests in the demerged entity. A foreign resident can only choose a rollover if the new interest acquired under the demerger is taxable Australian property as soon as they acquire it. A dividend paid under a demerger is generally not subject to tax if at least 50% of the CGT assets (by market value) owned by the demerged entity or its demerger subsidiaries are used by them in carrying on a business. This concession is automatic unless the head entity elects that it will not apply. What you should do Usually, the head company or trust of the group that is demerging will advise shareholders or unit holders if a CGT rollover is available. Check the information you have received from the head entity to find out about your rollover options and what you should do. When a corporate group restructures, we publish a class ruling setting out the tax consequences for shareholders. For further information you can: ask the company for details go to our legal database and search <company name> for class rulings – you may need to refine your search by ‘Rulings’. For certain large demergers, you can use the demergers calculator to: recalculate your cost base work out your capital gain or loss if you dispose of your shares. Using the CGT discount after a demerger If you sell your new interests in the demerged entity after the demerger, you must have owned the corresponding original interests in the head entity for at least 12 months to be eligible for the CGT discount . Example: CGT discount eligibility for new interests You received BHP Steel Ltd shares under the demerger on 22 July 2002. These related to shares you acquired in BHP Billiton Ltd on 15 August 2001. You meet the 12-month ownership requirement for the CGT discount if you dispose of the shares after 15 August 2002 – that is, 12 months or more after the date you acquired the BHP Billiton shares. End of example However, you calculate the 12 months from the date of demerger if you either: didn't choose the rollover and you received new interests in the demerged entity that relate to pre-CGT interests in the head entity acquired your new interests without a CGT event happening to your original interests. Example: CGT discount eligibility for pre-CGT shares You received BHP Steel Ltd shares under the demerger on 22 July 2002. The shares related to pre-CGT shares you owned in BHP Billiton Ltd and you didn't choose a rollover. You meet the 12-month ownership requirement for the CGT discount if you dispose of the shares after 22 July 2003 – that is, 12 months or more after the demerger. End of example QC 66051 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).