Keeping good investment records | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Keeping good investment records Check which records to keep to help you report your investment income accurately and claim deductions. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download What records to keep Generally, for investments you will need to keep your records for 5 years after we've processed your return. You need to keep records relating to your investments showing: how much you paid for them what you received if you disposed of them what income you received from them the expenses you incurred in owning them and maintaining them. You should keep records if you prepare your own tax return or use a tax agent. For more information about the records you need for investments and assets, see: Keeping records of shares and units Records for rental properties and holiday homes Keeping records for property – your main residence, inherited dwellings and held by former spouses Acquiring CGT assets – keeping records Exchange traded funds (ETF) – keep good records Keeping crypto records . Asset registers You can set up an asset register as an easy way to keep your records. Once you have entered your information into the register, had the information certified by a registered tax agent or a person approved by the Commissioner and kept the records for 5 years, you may be able to throw out your records. For more information, see Taxation Ruling  TR 2002/10 Income tax: capital gains tax: asset register.   QC 22806 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).