CGT discount for foreign residents | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search CGT discount for foreign residents Check if you are eligible for the 50% capital gains tax (CGT) discount as a foreign resident. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Assets acquired after 8 May 2012 Foreign and temporary resident individuals, including beneficiaries of trusts and partners in a partnership: are subject to CGT on taxable Australian property aren’t entitled to the full 50% CGT discount for assets acquired after 8 May 2012. If the asset was purchased after 8 May 2012, and you were a foreign or temporary resident for the entirety of your ownership period, you aren't entitled to any CGT discount when you sell the asset. You can claim an apportioned discount for the period you were an Australian resident if you purchased taxable Australian property after 8 May 2012 and you were both: a foreign resident when you sold the property an Australian resident for some of your ownership period of the property. You can use the capital gains tax record keeping tool to help calculate the correct discount percentage. Example: apportioned discount Eliza purchased a rental property in 2013 in Australia while she was an Australia resident for tax purposes. She left Australia for the United Kingdom in 2016 and became a foreign resident. She sold the property in 2017. Eliza can't claim the full 50% CGT discount. However, she can claim an apportioned discount for the period she was an Australian resident. She can use the capital gains tax record keeping tool to help her calculate her discount. End of example Assets acquired on or before 8 May 2012 You may apply a discount to your capital gain on assets acquired on or before 8 May 2012. There are 2 methods, if both apply, you can choose which one to use: If you had a period of Australian residency after 8 May 2012, you may pro rata the discount for the number of days you were an Australian resident after 8 May 2012. If you were a foreign resident or temporary resident on 8 May 2012, you can use the market value method to calculate your discount instead of the pro rata method. The easiest way to calculate your CGT discount is to use the capital gains tax record keeping tool . For the CGT discount formulas see, Section 115-115 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 . Example: property acquired before 8 May 2012 Violet is a resident of France. She has never been a resident of Australia. On 30 January 2011 she purchased a property in Australia for $1,000,000. On 8 May 2012 the property was valued at $1,100,000. On 1 July 2018 Violet sold the property for $2,000,000. Violet has a discount capital gain from the disposal of the property of $1,000,000. As Violet is a foreign resident, the discount percentage applicable to the gain may be adjusted. Violet chooses to use the market value method. The discount percentage is worked out as follows: Calculate the CGT asset's excess (which is the market value of the asset as at 8 May 2012 less the cost base as at 8 May 2012). $1,100,000 − $1,000,000 = $100,000 As the amount of the gain accrued before 9 May 2012 of $100,000 is less than the total discount capital gain of $1,000,000 from the disposal of property, the discount will need to be adjusted. Violet uses the CGT record keeping tool to calculate her capital gain for the year as $950,000 with a discount percentage of 5% applied to the total gain of $1,000,000. If the excess calculated was greater than the discount capital gain from the disposal, she would have been entitled to the full 50% discount. End of example QC 66060 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).