Expenses for a car you own or lease | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Expenses for a car you own or lease Deductions for work-related car expenses you incur for the use of your own car. Last updated 4 May 2026 Print or Download What are car expenses? Car expenses are the costs you incur to own and operate a car, including its decline in value. This includes: fuel and oil expenses repairs, servicing, maintenance and cleaning expenses registration insurance interest on a car loan lease payments decline in value of the car. The following expenses aren't car expenses: the purchase price of the car principal repayments of a car loan modifications, alterations of improvements to the car parking and tolls . Modifications, alterations and improvements can be added to the cost (as a second element cost ) of the car for the purpose of calculating it's decline in value. Claiming a deduction for car expenses To claim a deduction for car expenses: Your vehicle must meet the definition of a car . You must own or lease the car . You do not own or lease the car if you use it under a salary sacrifice or novated lease arrangement. The expenses must be for work-related trips . You can claim for trips between workplaces or to perform your work duties. You can't claim for trips between your home and place of work, except in limited circumstances. You must have spent the money yourself and weren't reimbursed. You must have the required records . If it's someone else's car or it's another type of vehicle (such as a truck or motorcycle), see Expenses for a vehicle that isn't yours or isn't a car . If your travel is partly private, you can only claim a deduction for the work-related portion of your expenses. You claim the tax deduction in your income tax return as a work-related car expense . If you receive an allowance from your employer for car expenses, you must include it as assessable income in your tax return. The allowance amount is shown on your income statement or payment summary. For a summary of this information in PDF format, see Car expenses (PDF, 322KB) This link will download a file . Definition of a car To claim a work-related car expense, the vehicle must be a car. A car is a motor vehicle that carries a load of less than one tonne and fewer than 9 passengers (including the driver). This includes electric (zero emissions) vehicles (EVs), plug-in hybrid vehicles (PHEVs) and hybrid vehicles if they meet this definition. Motorcycles and similar vehicles are not cars. If your vehicle is a car and you use it for work-related purposes, you must calculate your deduction using one of the 2 methods below . If your vehicle doesn't meet this definition, see Expenses for a vehicle that isn't yours or isn't a car . You must own or lease the car To claim car expenses you must own, lease (from a finance company) or hire the car (under a hire-purchase arrangement with the dealership). If you use a car owned by a family member, and you can show there is a private arrangement that made you the owner or lessee of the car (even if you aren't the registered owner or lessee), you work out your car expenses as though it is your car. A car you use under a salary sacrifice or novated lease arrangement is usually leased by your employer from a financing company, and your employer typically pays for the running costs and claims deductions. You can't claim running costs for such a car because you don't own or lease it but you can claim additional expenses, like parking and tolls associated with your work use of the car. If you don't own or lease the car (or don't have a private arrangement that makes you the owner or lessee), see Expenses for a vehicle that isn't yours or isn't a car . Example: private arrangement When Rory turned 18, she bought a car from her parents for $1,000. She now pays the insurance, fuel, registration and other running costs, and no one else uses the car. However, the registration hasn't been updated and the car is still registered in her mother's name. Rory is eligible to claim her work-related car expenses even though the registration hasn't been changed to her name. She would be treated as the owner because she can show that: she bought the car from her parents she is now responsible for all ownership and running costs of the car. End of example Calculating your car expense deductions To work out your deduction for car expenses, you can use either the: Cents per kilometre method Logbook method You can also use the calculator to work out your deduction for either method. Work-related car expenses calculator If you're claiming car expenses for more than one car, you can use a different method for each car. You can also change the method you use in different income years for the same car. Cents per kilometre method How to calculate a deduction for car expenses using the cents per kilometre method and the records you need to keep. Logbook method How to calculate a deduction for car expenses using the logbook method and the records you need to keep. QC 72124 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).