Occupancy expenses | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Occupancy expenses Check if you're eligible to claim occupancy expenses when you work from home. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Occupancy expenses for employees As an employee working from home, generally: you can't claim occupancy expenses you can claim running expenses . If you acquired your home after 20 September 1985 and you are eligible to claim occupancy expenses, there are capital gains tax (CGT) implications for your home. There are no CGT implications if you only claim running expenses. See deductions for home-based business expenses if you operate a business from your home. Occupancy expenses are expenses that you pay to own or rent your home. These include: mortgage interest rent council and water rates land taxes house insurance premiums. If you're eligible to claim occupancy expenses, you can also claim running expenses you incur. Eligibility to claim You can only claim occupancy expenses if you have an area of your home set aside that has the character of a 'place of business' and you can show all the following : the nature of your income earning activities requires you to have a place of business it was necessary for you to work from home because your employer doesn't provide you with an alternative place of business (as opposed to your employer allowing you to work from another location) the area of your home that you use for work is exclusively or almost exclusively used for work purposes and isn't readily capable of being used for any other purpose. Indicators that the area of your home you've set aside to work from may be a place of business include: the area is clearly identifiable as a place of business the area isn’t readily capable of being used for private or domestic purposes the area is exclusively or almost exclusively used for carrying on a business the area is used regularly for visits of clients or customers. You can't claim occupancy expenses if your employer provides you with a place to work. Example: employer provides place of work Priya currently lives in Albury and is employed as a salesperson for the southern New South Wales region. She is offered a promotion to the area sales manager position for Victoria by her employer. The job is based at her employer's Geelong office but they are flexible so they allow Priya to work from her home in Albury. As Priya’s employer provides her with an office to work from, she can't claim occupancy expenses. It is Priya's personal choice to live in Albury. End of example Calculate your occupancy expenses Occupancy expenses can generally be apportioned on a floor area basis. You must also apportion your expenses on a time basis if you only use that area of your home for work purposes for part of the year. Example: occupancy expenses deductible Abdul is employed as the on-site manager in a large townhouse complex. As the on-site manager, his duties include being available to deal with issues that arise on-site or that are raised by residents, manage the townhouses in the complex that are rented out by the owners, attend to the gardening, repairs and maintenance issues for the complex and provide monthly reports to the body corporate. As the onsite manager, Abdul must be available from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm each weekday and from 9 am to noon on weekends. Outside of these times Abdul must be available to attend to emergencies. He lives on-site and rents a townhouse for discounted rate of $400 per week which has a separate small room at the front set up as an office. The room is 6m² and Abdul's townhouse is 120m². Residents, tradespeople and anyone else coming onto the complex to attend to an issue go to the office to speak to Abdul in the first instance. The office has a: lockable glass sliding door at the front and a lockable door at the back of the office which leads to the rest of his townhouse counter installed with a built-in desk, filing cabinets and a photocopier behind the counter large sign outside out the front indicating that the on-site manager's office is located there. Abdul's employer provides a computer, mobile phone and printer for him to use while he is working. As the office is small and is mainly taken up with a with the built-in counter, desk and other office equipment, Abdul doesn’t use the room for non-work purposes. When he finishes working for the day, he locks the front door of the office and the door leading to the rest of his townhouse. Abdul can claim a deduction for a portion of his occupancy expenses as a result of working from his home because: his income earning activities require him to have a place of business for residents of the complex, tradespeople and other contractors to discuss matters with him and to deal with any issues with arise on-site his employer doesn't provide him with an alternative place of business to work from it is necessary for him to work from the office set up in his townhouse so that he is onsite when required the room he works from is used exclusively for work purposes and it is not readily capable of being used for any other purpose due to the built-in counter, desk and other office equipment. Abdul's rent expenses for the 2025–26 income year are $20,800 ($400 × 52 weeks). Abdul calculates his deduction for occupancy expenses as follows: Total occupancy expenses × floor area percentage $20,800 × 5% = $1,040. End of example   Example: occupancy expenses not deductible Randy’s employer decides to permanently close the office he currently works from before their shutdown in mid-December 2025. From January 2026, Randy works from home in either his lounge room at a desk or at the dining table. As Randy only needs a laptop and a mobile phone, he doesn’t have a room set aside to work from. Randy can’t claim a deduction for any portion of his occupancy expenses. Even though his employer hasn’t provided him with a work location and it is necessary for him to work from home, he doesn’t have an area of his home set aside to use exclusively, or almost exclusively, for income producing purposes. His dining room and lounge room are also readily capable of being used, and are used regularly, for private purposes. Randy also doesn't have an area of his home set aside as a 'place of business'. End of example Record keeping for occupancy expenses You must keep records for all of your occupancy expenses, including: bank statements for your mortgage interest rental receipts quarterly invoices for your water and council rates invoices or receipts for your house insurance land tax assessment notices and evidence of payment a floor plan of your home with the floor area used when working from home clearly marked records of time spent using the area for a purpose other than working from home records showing how you apportioned your occupancy expenses. You must also keep records for the property , including: the purchase and sale contract for your home records of any incidental expenses you incur on the purchase and sale of your home – for example, real estate agent commission and stamp duty records of the occupancy expenses for every year you claim them. If you become eligible to claim occupancy expenses sometime after you buy your home and you're eligible to claim a deduction for interest expenses, you won't be eligible for the full main residence exemption . It doesn't matter whether you actually had a home loan or whether you claimed a deduction for interest, your main residence exemption will still be affected. However, there are special rules around the cost of your home in these circumstances. As such, you should get a market valuation for your house at the time you first start using it for income producing purposes. These records must be kept for the entire period that you own your home and for at least 5 years after you sell it. Find out more about how your home may be affected if you use your home in earning your income . QC 72163 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).