Keeping records for property | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Keeping records for property Which records you need to keep for your property to work out CGT when you sell it. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Property records you should keep For your property, you should keep records of: your acquisition of the property and related expenses, for example purchase contract stamp duty legal fees settlement statement survey and valuation fees your disposal of the property and related expenses, for example the sale contract sale settlement statement legal fees sales commission your costs of owning the property, including interest rates land taxes insurance premiums the cost of repairs capital expenditure on improvements, for example extensions or additions. The records for buying, owning and selling the property need to be kept for at least 5 years after you dispose of the property. If you acquired your property before 20 September 1985, it is exempt from capital gains tax (CGT). You don't need to keep records for CGT purposes unless you later add a capital improvement. However, you still need to keep records of any property income, such as rent, for income tax purposes. Main residence Your main residence (home) is generally exempt from CGT. However, you should keep all records in case circumstances change and it is no longer exempt from CGT. For example, if you start renting out part of your home, you will need records. Using your main residence to produce income If you rent out part of your home or run a business from home , it may be subject to CGT. Keep records of: expenses during the time you produced income the proportion of the property used to produce income. If you first use your home to produce income after 20 August 1996, you need a record of your home's market value at the time you first used it to produce income. It is best to get a market valuation of your home at the time. However, you can arrange a valuation later if necessary. Inherited dwellings If you inherit a dwelling that was the main residence of the person who left it to you, any capital gain when you later dispose of it may be exempt from CGT. The exemption depends on a number of things, for example when you inherit the property and how long you own it before disposing of it. Until you are sure of the circumstances, you should keep records of: relevant costs incurred by you, the previous owner and the trustee or executor the market value of the dwelling at the time the deceased died. If the executor or trustee has a record of a market valuation, get a copy of the valuation report. Records held by former spouse If a property transfers to you because of a relationship breakdown , get copies of the property records that show: how and when your former spouse acquired the property the property's cost base when they transferred it to you. If the property was your former spouse's main residence, get copies of records that show: the extent to which they used it to produce income during their ownership period the number of days it was their main residence during their ownership period. You'll need these records to show how much of your spouse's ownership period is eligible for the main residence exemption. If you don't have these records, you may be liable for CGT for periods when the property would have qualified for the exemption. QC 66027 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).