Shares and similar investments | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Shares and similar investments Find out what can trigger a CGT event, such as selling shares or receiving certain distributions. When CGT applies to shares and units Find out when CGT applies to selling shares or receiving certain distributions. Keeping records of shares and units How to identify which shares you have sold, when you acquired them, and the records you need to keep. Share investing versus share trading Work out if you are investing or trading in shares, and the difference it makes to your tax. When you can claim losses on shares and units Find out what triggers a claimable loss on shares and units, and how you claim it in your tax return. Share buy-backs How your tax is affected if you sell your shares back to the company. Dividend reinvestment plans How tax applies to your dividend if you use it to buy more shares from the same company. Demergers CGT rollover for shareholders and unit holders Find out if you should defer your gain or loss when a corporate group demerges. CGT listed investment companies concession Find out if you're entitled to a tax deduction from a listed investment company that includes a LIC capital gain amount. Investments in a company in liquidation or administration Check if you can realise a capital loss on shares or investments in a company in liquidation or administration. Trust non-assessable payments (CGT event E4) Unit trusts often make non-assessable payments to unit holder. QC 102686 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).