Using capital losses to reduce capital gains | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Using capital losses to reduce capital gains Find out when you can use capital losses to reduce your capital gains, and how to carry forward a net capital loss. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download When to use capital losses You use your current year capital losses to offset your current year capital gains. You can choose which capital gains to subtract your capital losses from. If you have any capital gains that are not eligible for the CGT discount, subtract your capital losses from these gains first. This will result in the lowest payable CGT. If you have capital losses from prior years, also known as net capital losses carried forward, you can use them to offset your current year capital gains. If your prior year capital losses extinguished your current year capital gain, you don't have a current year capital gain. As net capital losses can be carried forward indefinitely, there is an order of using your capital losses to offset capital gains. You apply your net capital losses in the order that you make them. There are capital losses you can't use to offset capital gains, they are listed at non-allowable capital losses . Carrying forward a net capital loss If your allowable capital losses are greater than your capital gains, you have a net capital loss. You can carry it forward to later income years to be deducted from future capital gains. You can’t deduct capital losses or a net capital loss from your other assessable income. There is no time limit on how long you can carry forward a net capital loss. Non-allowable capital losses You can't deduct capital losses you make from: personal use assets , for example boats or furniture assets that are exempt from CGT , for example cars and motorcycles collectables below a certain value a lease (whether the result of expiry, forfeiture, surrender or assignment) – except if its main purpose is producing income, for example a commercial rental property or a car paying personal services income to yourself through an entity you have set up . Capital losses from collectables Capital losses from collectables can only be deducted from capital gains made from collectables. They can't be deducted from gains made from other assets. If you don't have a capital gain from another collectable, you can carry forward the capital loss to deduct it against a gain from a collectable in a future year. A collectable isn't subject to CGT if you acquired it for $500 or less (or acquired an interest in it when it had a market value of $500 or less). This means you ignore a capital gain or loss from the collectable. Company capital losses A company can deduct previous net capital losses from capital gains in the current year as long as it is either: substantially under the same ownership and control still in the same line of business. Trust capital losses Capital losses made by a trust can't be distributed to the trust’s beneficiaries. The trust can carry forward its net capital losses and deduct them from capital gains in future years. Exempt entity losses Losses made by an entity that is exempt from income tax are disregarded. For more information and help on how to calculate your CGT, see Calculating your CGT . QC 66025 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).