Tools and equipment to perform your work | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Tools and equipment to perform your work Deductions for tools or instruments you use for work, including the cost of repairs and insurance. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Eligibility to claim tool and equipment expenses To claim a deduction for tools and equipment expenses you must: use the items to perform your work duties work out if you can claim the cost of the item in the income year you buy it or the decline in value over its effective life have a record of your expenses and use of the items . When you use the items for both private and work purposes, you need to apportion your deduction. You can only claim the work-related use of the item as a deduction. You can also claim a deduction for the work-related portion of: costs you incur to repair and insure your tools and equipment interest expenses you incur on money you borrow to buy these items. What you can't claim You can't claim a deduction for: your use of the tools or equipment for private purposes expenses for tools and equipment that someone else supplies for your use. Types of tools and equipment you can claim You can claim the cost of tools and equipment that you use for work, such as: hand tools – for example, spanners, hammers and screwdrivers power tools – for example, grinders, sanders and hammer drills calculators cameras musical instruments safety equipment – for example, a hard hat or steel cap boots technical instruments electric clippers and scissors phones and other devices computers, laptops and software bags and cases stationery and office supplies office furniture and equipment . This is not an exhaustive list of items or equipment you use for work. How to calculate your tools and equipment deduction Tools and equipment are generally depreciating assets that decline in value over time. How you work out your deduction will depend on if the item cost: $300 or less More than $300 You need to apportion your deduction if you use the item for both work and private purposes. You claim the deduction in your tax return as other work-related expenses . For instructions on how to complete your tax return, see Instructions to complete your tax return . $300 or less An immediate deduction is available for a depreciating asset if: it cost $300 or less you use it mainly to produce non-business assessable income it isn't part of a set that cost more than $300 it isn't one of a number of items that are identical or almost identical costing more than $300 You must satisfy the conditions of all 4 tests to claim an immediate deduction. If you can't claim an immediate deduction, you can claim a deduction for the decline in value of the depreciating asset. Example: tools costing less than $300 Delia is a violinist in an orchestra and requires a new bow for performances. The new bow costs $200. Delia keeps a copy of the receipt, that shows the cost of the bow and where and when she bought it. Delia only uses this bow for performances with the orchestra. Delia can claim an immediate deduction for the full cost of the new bow as: it cost less than $300 the bow is required to carry out her work-related duties the bow is only used for earning employment income she has records as evidence she incurred the cost. End of example More than $300 You can claim a deduction for the decline in value over the effective life of the depreciating asset, if the item: cost more than $300 forms part of a set that together cost more than $300 is identical, or substantially identical to, other items that together cost more than $300. Example: decline in value for a set of tools costing more than $300 Sammy is an employee mechanic and needs a spanner set for working on cars. Each spanner costs $22 and can be bought individually. There are 16 spanners in the set costing a total of $352. Sammy buys one spanner each fortnight of the income year starting in August. As the spanners are part of a set costing more than $300 in total, Sammy can claim a deduction for the decline in value of the set. End of example Calculating your claim Work out your claim for the decline in value for a depreciating asset using our Depreciation and capital allowances tool below. Depreciation and capital allowances tool You can manually calculate the decline in value of a depreciating asset using either the prime cost method or diminishing value method. Keeping records for tools and equipment You must keep records to support your claim for work use of tools and equipment, such as: written evidence (such as receipts) for items you buy information about how the item is used by you in carrying out your employment duties a record (such as a diary note) that shows how you work out your percentage of work-related use. If you are claiming the decline in value of an asset, you also need to keep records that show how you calculated decline in value . For more information on general record keeping requirements and formats, see records you need to keep . QC 72139 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).