Overseas visitors – private health insurance on your tax return | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Overseas visitors – private health insurance on your tax return Help for overseas visitors to complete the Medicare levy surcharge and private health insurance section on a tax return. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Completing private health insurance details on your tax return Use this information to help you complete the Private health insurance policy details section and the Medicare levy surcharge section in your tax return. For help on how to complete the Private health insurance policy details section and the Medicare levy surcharge section in your tax return in myTax , see Overseas visitors. If you have a health insurance policy, see the table below. Depending on the type of policy you have, and your eligibility for Medicare, it shows if you: are eligible for the private health insurance rebate need to complete the private health insurance details on your tax return. Guide for overseas visitors by health insurance policy type Policy type Eligible for private health insurance rebate Complete private health insurance details Policy from overseas health insurer No No Complying health insurance policy from Australian-registered health insurer (If you are eligible for Medicare) Yes Yes Complying health insurance policy from Australian-registered health insurer (If you are not eligible for Medicare) No No OSHC or OVHC from Australian-registered health insurer No No For further instructions to help complete a paper tax return, see Individual tax return instructions – M2 Medicare levy surcharge . If you have an overseas health insurer If your private health insurance provider is an overseas provider that is not registered in Australia, you: will not be eligible for any rebate on your policy you may need to pay the Medicare levy surcharge if you don't meet the conditions for a Medicare levy exemption . In this case, when completing your tax return (paper tax return), you should: answer No at label E question M2 Medicare levy surcharge work out the number of days you do not have to pay the Medicare levy surcharge (if you qualify for a Medicare levy exemption you will also be exempt from paying the Medicare levy surcharge) and complete label A question M2 Medicare levy surcharge as per the Individual tax return instructions not complete the private health insurance policy details section. For myTax instructions, see myTax 2026 Private health insurance – Overseas visitors . If you have a complying health insurance policy You will need to determine if you are eligible for Medicare, if you are not eligible see – If you are not eligible for Medicare . Your health insurance policy is complying if it: is provided by a registered health insurer, provides hospital cover, or general cover (also known as ‘extras’), or combined hospital and general cover meets other complying private health insurance policy requirements. If you are eligible for Medicare, you can ask for a private health insurance statement from your insurance provider if: you have an Australian-registered complying health insurance policy you are a private health insurance incentive beneficiary (PHIIB). When completing your tax return (paper tax return), if you and all of your dependents were covered under a complying health insurance policy for the full year with the appropriate level of private patient hospital cover, you should: answer Yes at label E question M2 Medicare levy surcharge (see the Individual tax return instructions when completing the other parts of question M2 ) complete the private health insurance policy details section. If you are not eligible for Medicare If you are an overseas visitor who is not eligible for Medicare, you are not entitled to any private health insurance rebate. However, you can still purchase a complying health insurance policy with an Australian-registered health insurer. If you purchase a complying health insurance policy your private health insurance information may be pre-filled in myTax. The pre-filled private health insurance details need to be deleted before you lodge your return. When completing your tax return online , you must: At Medicare levy surcharge Answer No to the question Were you and all your dependants covered by an appropriate level of patient hospital cover? Indicate the Number of days you don’t have to pay the surcharge (this will usually be 365). At Private health insurance Delete all Private health insurance policies by clicking delete in the bottom left-hand side of the screen. Your private health insurance should be blank. When completing a paper tax return , you must: answer ‘ N ’ for No at label E question M2 Medicare levy surcharge write the number of days you do not have to pay the surcharge – at label ‘ A ’ (this is usually 365) do not complete the private health insurance policy details section. Overseas student or overseas visitors health cover If you are an overseas visitor, you can purchase Overseas student health cover External Link (OSHC) or Overseas visitors health cover External Link (OVHC) from an Australian-registered health insurer. These are not complying health insurance policies, and you will not be eligible for the private health insurance rebate. When completing your tax return (paper tax return) as an overseas visitor with OSHC or OVHC: answer No at label E question M2 Medicare levy surcharge work out the number of days you are eligible for exemption from the Medicare levy surcharge and complete label A question M2 Medicare levy surcharge as per the Individual tax return instructions do not complete the private health insurance policy details section. QC 49967 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).