What is capital gains tax? | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search What is capital gains tax? How capital gains tax (CGT) works, and how you report and pay tax on capital gains when you sell assets. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Capital gains tax (CGT) is the tax you pay on profits from disposing of assets including investments, for example property, shares and crypto assets. Although it is referred to as 'capital gains tax', it's part of your income tax. It's not a separate tax. If you dispose of assets (generally when you stop being the owner of an asset) a CGT event may be triggered. This is when you need to report capital gains and capital losses in your tax return. If you have a: capital gain, it will increase the tax you need to pay – you may want to work out how much tax you'll owe and set aside funds to cover it capital loss, you can offset it against any capital gains in the year they occur, or in future years, and reduce the tax you need to pay – it's important to include losses in your tax return. Example: calculating CGT Maree buys some shares for $5,000. She owns the shares for 6 months and sells them for $5,500. She has no other capital gains or losses. Maree declares a capital gain of $500 in her tax return. She will pay tax on this gain at her individual income tax rate. End of example QC 69844 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).