Australian defence force members performing overseas duty | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Australian defence force members performing overseas duty Reporting income for members of the ADF performing overseas duty. Last updated 16 June 2025 Print or Download Eligibility You don't pay income tax on the salary and allowances you receive while you are serving as a member of the Defence Force, if: there is a certificate in force issued by the Chief of the Defence Force in writing to the effect that you are on eligible duty with a specified organisation in a specified area outside Australia the eligible duty is not as, or under, an attaché at an Australian embassy or legation. Eligible duty The following organisations, areas and dates have been specified by Regulation. Specified organisations, areas and duty dates Organisation Area After the day Before the day Australian Defence Force on Operation Accordion The land area, territorial waters, airspace and superjacent airspace of the following countries: Bahrain Qatar the United Arab Emirates.   30 June 2014 n/a Australian Defence Force on Operation Augury The following areas: the land area and superjacent airspace of Afghanistan the land area, territorial waters, airspace and superjacent airspace of the following countries   Iraq Jordan Syria the United Arab Emirates.   3 July 2014 n/a Australian Defence Force on Operation Highroad The land area and superjacent airspace of Afghanistan. 31 December 2014 n/a Australian Defence Force on Operation Manitou The sea (including adjacent ports and the area within a 10 km radius of such ports) and superjacent airspace of: the Gulf of Aden the Gulf of Aqaba the Gulf of Oman the Gulf of Suez the Indian Ocean north of latitude 15ºS and west of longitude 70ºE the Persian Gulf the Red Sea the Strait of Hormuz.   14 May 2015 n/a Australian Defence Force on Operation Okra The land area, territorial waters, airspace and superjacent airspace of the following countries: Bahrain Cyprus Iraq Jordan Kuwait Qatar Syria Turkey east of longitude 35ºE the United Arab Emirates. The waters and superjacent airspace of the Persian Gulf. 9 September 2015 n/a Australian Defence Force on Operation Orenda The land area and superjacent airspace of Mali. 1 April 2020 n/a Australian Defence Force on Operation Paladin The land area, territorial waters, airspace and superjacent airspace of the following countries: Egypt Israel Jordan Lebanon Syria.   1 July 2020 n/a United Nations – Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (Operation Palate II) The land area and superjacent airspace of Afghanistan. 26 June 2005 1 January 2017 Australian Defence Force on Operation Steadfast The land area, territorial waters, airspace and superjacent airspace of Iraq. 9 September 2018 n/a Certificate in Force A certificate issued by the Chief of the Defence Force comes into force on the later of the time: specified in the certificate you arrive for duty in the specified area. The certificate continues in force until the earlier of the time: you leave the specified area specified in the certificate or a certificate of revocation specified in the regulations. The certificate continues in force if you are hospitalised from an illness or injury contracted or sustained during your eligible duty. Other income You have to pay income tax on any other income you make or receive. This includes rent, interest, dividends and capital gains  and any other income you receive while on eligible duty. The exemption from paying tax only applies to the salary and allowances you receive while on eligible duty with a specified organisation in a specified area. For a guide to ADF members income and work-related deductions, see our occupation guide for Australian Defence Force members . QC 72098 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).