Depreciating assets you use for work | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Depreciating assets you use for work As an employee, find out how to claim for your depreciating assets and work out decline in value. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download What are depreciating assets? Depreciating assets are assets that have a limited effective life and can reasonably be expected to lose value over the time they are used. These assets can be used for a long time (normally more than one year). This includes items such as tools, computers or books. The cost of buying a depreciating asset is capital expenditure, and you can't claim a deduction for the cost under normal deduction rules (known as the general deductions provisions). You may be able to claim a deduction for the decline in value of depreciating assets each year under the capital allowances provisions. To calculate a decline in value deduction, you will need to work out the effective life and the cost of the asset . Cost of depreciating assets Before you can claim a deduction for a depreciating asset you need to consider the cost of the asset. There are 2 elements to the cost of an asset: The amount you pay for it (the purchase price) at the time you buy it and any other expenses you incur to acquire the asset (such as shipping). Any amounts you pay after you buy the asset, including the costs to   bring the asset to its present condition – for example, the cost of making an improvement the asset such as attaching a towbar to your car bring the asset to its present location – for example, the cost of moving an asset to a different location or getting the towbar you are attaching to your car delivered to you. There are also 2 different treatments for depreciating assets, depending on whether they cost more or less than $300. An immediate deduction is allowable for certain depreciating assets costing $300 or less . You must satisfy the conditions of 4 tests to claim an immediate deduction. If you're not eligible to claim an immediate deduction for the asset, you may choose to allocate the depreciating asset to a low-value pool where its cost is less than $1000. If you're not eligible to claim an immediate deduction and you choose not to allocate it to a low-value pool, you can claim a deduction for the decline in value of a depreciating asset over its effective life where either: The assets cost more than $300 . The asset forms part of a set or are identical or substantially identical items that together cost more than $300. You can't treat items that are part of a set or identical separately to avoid working out the decline in value. You need to apportion your claim if you use the item for both work and private purposes. You must also keep records to show how you work out your work-related use. Jointly held assets Generally, the owner (or owners if the asset is jointly held) of the depreciating asset can claim a deduction for its decline in value. If you jointly own a depreciating asset with someone else, your interest (the portion you own) is the amount that is relevant as the cost of the depreciating asset. For example, if you purchase an asset that cost $500 with another person jointly, the cost of the asset for you is $250. If the cost of your interest in the asset is $300 or less, you can claim an immediate deduction (if the other tests are satisfied). This will be the case even if the total cost of the depreciating asset is more than $300. Assets costing 300 dollars or less The 4 tests to claim an immediate deduction for a depreciating asset you use for work that cost $300 or less. Assets costing more than 300 dollars Find out how to claim a decline in value deduction for a depreciating asset you use for work and cost more than $300. Keeping records for depreciating assets Which records to keep for depreciating assets so you can claim a deduction and show how you calculate work use. QC 72149 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).