Australia-United States Joint Space and Defence Projects | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Australia-United States Joint Space and Defence Projects How employment income in connection with a joint space and defence project may qualify for special tax treatment. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Eligible projects A joint space and defence project may qualify for special tax treatment. If you receive income in connection with the following projects, you may qualify for special tax treatment: North West Cape Naval Communication Station at Exmouth. Joint Defence Space Research Facility at Pine Gap. Sparta Project. Joint Defence Space Communications Station. Force Posture Initiatives. Project employment income Under some circumstances, employment income for services in connection with these facilities is exempt from Australian income tax if the same income is subject to tax in the United States (US). You will need to keep evidence such as a closing agreement with the US Internal Revenue Service External Link . Foreign contractor income Income a foreign contractor gets from services performed at these facilities may be exempt if the income is not exempt in the US. However, if the foreign contractor is a US entity that doesn't pay tax (such as a limited liability company), the US tax treatment of the entity and its members will be considered when working out if the exemption applies. This tax treatment doesn't apply to Australian citizens or residents of Australia for tax purposes. QC 72099 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).