Income you must declare | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Income you must declare Work out which income you need to declare in your tax return, such as employment, government and investment income. Employment income Income from working such as wages, allowances, lump sum payments, cash and tips, reportable fringe benefits and super. Foreign and worldwide income Check if you need to declare foreign income and pay tax, the tax you pay depends on your residency for tax purposes. Government payments and allowances When to declare taxable and tax-free government payments, pensions and allowances in your tax return. Investment income Work out which investment income you must declare, such as interest, dividends, rental income or other capital gains. Superannuation pensions and annuities Find out about declaring income in your tax return from superannuation pensions or annuities. Business, partnership and trust income How to declare income you earn as a sole trader, as a partner in a partnership or from a trust. Compensation and insurance payments Check if you need to declare and pay tax on compensation and insurance payments, including settlements. Scholarships prizes and awards What to declare in your tax return and tax you pay on scholarships, prizes and awards. Your income if you are under 18 years old If you're under 18 years old (a minor), special rules apply to income you earn and you may pay tax at a higher rate. Taxable assessable and exempt income Income you receive may be taxable, assessable, exempt, or non-assessable non-exempt – find out if you need to report it. Amounts you do not include as income Amounts that you earn or receive that you don't need to declare as income. Lump sum payment in arrears Check if you qualify to pay less tax, Medicare levy and Medicare levy surcharge on a lump sum payment in arrears. QC 102697 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).