Fixed rate method | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Fixed rate method Check your eligibility to calculate your working from home expenses using the fixed rate method. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Eligibility to claim To use the fixed rate method, you must: incur additional running expenses as a result of working from home have a record of the total number of hours you work from home and the expenses you incur while working at home. How it works You can claim a fixed rate for each hour you work from home during the relevant income year. The rate includes the additional running expenses you incur for: home and mobile internet or data expenses mobile and home phone usage expenses electricity and gas (energy expenses) for heating, cooling and lighting stationery and computer consumables, such as printer ink and paper. The rate per work hour includes the total deductible expenses for the above additional running expenses. If you're using this method, you can't claim an additional separate deduction for these expenses. Fixed rate method To calculate your deduction using this method, multiply the number of hours you work from home by the hourly fixed rate in the income year. Use the rate for the income year for which you are claiming a deduction: 2024–25 and 2025–26: use 70 cents per work hour 2022–23 and 2023–24: use 67 cents per work hour 2020–21 and 2021–22: use 52 cent per work hour . For fixed rates and eligibility in earlier years, see  Prior year tax return forms and schedules . How to claim expenses the fixed rate doesn't include You can separately claim a deduction for the work-related use of technology and office furniture such as chairs, desks, computers, bookshelves. These are generally depreciating assets that decline in value over time. You can also claim the repairs and maintenance of these items. If the item cost $300 or less and you use it mainly to produce non-business income, you can claim an immediate deduction for the cost in the year you buy it. This may include items such as keyboards, computer mouses, power boards, desk lamps and chargers. You can claim a deduction for the decline in value of depreciating assets over the effective life of the item, if it either: cost more than $300 forms part of a set that together cost more than $300 is identical, or substantially identical to, other items that together cost more than $300. You may choose to work out the decline in value of low-cost assets and low-value assets with a cost or opening adjustable value of less than $1,000 through a low-value pool . You calculate decline in value of depreciating assets in a low-value pool using a diminishing value rate. You can't allocate depreciating assets that cost $300 or less to a low-value pool if they are used mainly to produce non-business income and you can claim an immediate deduction for them. Where you use your depreciating assets for both work and private purposes, you need to apportion your decline in value deduction. You can only claim the work-related portion as a deduction. In limited circumstances where you have a dedicated home office, you may also be able to claim: occupancy expenses (such as mortgage interest or rent) cleaning expenses (such as the cost of cleaning that relates to the work-related use of a room in your house set up as a home office). For more information about the deductions allowable for 'home office' expenses, see PCG 2023/1 Claiming a deduction for additional running expenses incurred while working from home – ATO compliance approach Example: no additional deduction as expense covered by fixed rate Keisha is an employee engineer. During 2025–26, Keisha works from home and uses her timesheets to record the hours she spends working from home. At the end of the income year, Keisha works out that she worked at home for a total of 843 hours. When she is working from home, Keisha incurs electricity expenses, internet expenses and mobile phone expenses. However, Keisha also uses her mobile phone for work purposes on days when she is not working from home. If Keisha uses the fixed rate method to calculate her working from home expenses deduction, she can claim a deduction of $590 (843 hours × 70c) in her 2025–26 tax return. Keisha can't claim a separate deduction in her tax return for the mobile phone expenses she incurs when she's not working from home as the rate per work hour includes this expense. If Keisha wants to claim all of her work-related mobile phone expenses, she will need to use the actual costs method to calculate her claim for working from home expenses. End of example Calculate your deduction Use our home office expenses calculator to help work out your deduction. Home office expenses calculator You can also calculate your deduction manually using the steps below. Steps for calculating your work from home deduction manually Before you calculate your deduction, check you have all the records you are required to keep. Step 1: Work out the total number of hours you worked from home Work out the total number of hours you worked from home during the income year using your records – for example, your timesheets, rosters, diary or similar document you keep at the same time as when you work. Step 2: Multiply your total work from home hours by the rate per hour Multiply the total number of hours worked from home during the year by the rate per hour (70 cents for the 2025–26 income year). Step 3: Work out the decline in value of depreciating assets used for working from home Calculate the work-related decline in value of any depreciating assets that you used to work from home during the income year. Use our Depreciation and capital allowances tool to help work this out. For more information, see Depreciating assets you use for work . Step 4: Work out the amount of any other working from home expenses you incurred that the rate per hour doesn't cover Use your records to work out the amount of any other work-related expenses you incurred as a result of working from home. Don't include any amount for expenses the rate per work hour covers . Step 5: Add the amounts at step 2, step 3 and step 4 together The total of step 2, step 3 and step 4 (with the cents disregarded not rounded) is the amount you claim as a working from home deduction in your tax return. Example: deduction calculated using fixed rate method Yang is employed as a software engineer. On 6 December 2025, Yang starts working from home 2 days a week and at the office 3 days a week. On 1 December 2025, Yang buys a desk for $250 and an office chair for $299. Yang only uses the desk and office chair when working from home. He keeps his receipt for both items. When working from home, Yang uses his work laptop, his personal internet connection and his personal mobile phone. Yang also uses the air conditioner in his spare room to cool and heat the room he works in. Yang uses a spreadsheet to record the time he starts and finishes working from home. Yang also keeps one quarterly invoice for his electricity expenses, one monthly internet bill and one monthly mobile phone bill for the period between 6 December 2025 and 30 June 2026. At the end of the 2025–26 income year, Yang decides to use the fixed rate method to calculate his working from home deduction. Yang calculates his deduction manually as follows: Yang uses his spreadsheet to calculate that he worked from home for a total of 567 hours. Yang calculates his deduction for electricity, mobile phone and internet by multiplying the total number of hours he worked from home by the hourly rate. His calculation is: 567 hours × 70c per work hour = $396.90 Yang works out his decline in value deduction. As the desk and office chair Yang bought cost less than $300 each and he only uses them when he works from home, he can claim the cost of the desk and the office chair as a decline in value deduction for the 2025–26 income year. His deduction is: Chair – $299 Desk – $250 Yang has no other expenses. Yang calculates his total deduction by adding the amount he calculated at Step 2 and Step 3. This is calculated as: $396.90 + $299 + $250 = $945.90 When he lodges his 2025–26 tax return, Yang includes a deduction of $945 (that is, $945.90 with the cents disregarded not rounded) for his working from home expenses. End of example Record keeping for the fixed rate method To claim your working from home deduction using this method, you must keep: a record of the number of actual hours you work from home during the entire income year – for example, a timesheet, roster, diary or other similar document (an estimate of your hours won't be acceptable) at least one record for each of the additional running expenses you incur that the rate per work hour includes – for example, if you incurred electricity and stationery expenses keep one quarterly bill for your electricity expenses and one receipt for your stationery expenses You need to keep your records for 5 years (in most cases) from the date you lodge your tax return. You must keep records for depreciating assets from the time you buy them, that shows: the amount spent on depreciating assets you buy the percentage of the year you use your depreciating assets exclusively for work, such as a diary or similar document. You must also keep these records for other running expenses you are claiming as a separate deduction. You need to keep these records for 5 years from the date of your last claim for decline in value. Example: estimate of hours worked from home for part of the income year Wanda has an agreement with her employer to work from home one day a week. She is required to work 8 hours each working day (40 hours per week). Wanda sits at her kitchen table when she works at home and uses her employer provided laptop and mobile phone. Wanda uses her own internet connection and electricity. Wanda keeps one monthly internet bill and a quarterly electricity bill but she doesn't keep any records of the hours she spent working from home during the period from 1 July 2025 to 28 February 2026. Wanda estimates the hours she worked from home during this period as 280 hours using: 8 hours per day × 1 day per week working from home 35 weeks (rounded up from 34 weeks and 4 days). At the end of February 2025, Wanda finds out that she needs to keep a record of the hours she works at home at the time she works them if she wants to use the fixed rate method. For the period from 1 March 2026 to 30 June 2026, Wanda keeps a record in her email calendar of when she starts and finishes work (including any breaks) on the day she works from home each week. At the end of the 2025–26 income year, Wanda calculates the hours she worked from home during this 4-month period as 136 hours. Wanda can claim a deduction for her working from home expenses using the fixed rate method because she has kept records of: the expenses she incurred which are covered by the rate per hour, that is, her electricity and internet expenses a record of the actual hours she worked from home during the period 1 March 2026 to 30 June 2026. Wanda calculates deduction as: 136  × 70c = $95 (with cents disregarded, not rounded). Wanda can't include the hours she worked from home during the period from 1 July 2025 to 28 February 2026. This is because Wanda estimated the hours worked from home during this part of the year and estimates of hours worked from home are not accepted. Only a record kept at the time the hours are worked from home is acceptable. End of example You can use the myDeductions tool in the ATO app to keep track of your expenses and receipts throughout the year. myDeductions tool QC 72159 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).