Capital proceeds from disposing of assets | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Capital proceeds from disposing of assets Money and other types of capital proceeds, market valuation of an asset, and reductions to your capital proceeds. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Types of capital proceeds Capital proceeds are what you receive, or are entitled to receive, from a capital gains tax (CGT) event, such as selling an asset. For most CGT events your capital proceeds will be money. They can also be the value of any property you receive or are entitled to receive. If you receive: foreign currency – work out the capital proceeds by converting it to Australian currency at the time of the CGT event property (including shares) subject to a deed of escrow – your capital proceeds include the market value of the property at the time of the CGT event (a deed of escrow imposes a restriction on dealing in that property). If you give away or sell an asset for less than it's worth, your capital proceeds equal the market value of the asset. Market value substitution If you receive nothing in exchange for a CGT asset, you are taken to have received the market value of the asset at the time of the CGT event. This is the market value substitution rule for capital proceeds. You may also be taken to have received the market value if both of the following apply: what you received was more or less than the market value of the CGT asset you and the new owner were not dealing with each other at arm's length. You are dealing at ‘arm's length’ with someone when each party acts independently. This occurs when neither party exercises influence or control over the other in connection with the transaction. The law looks at the relationship between the parties and the quality of the bargaining between them. The market value substitution rule may apply when transferring property to family or friends . Example: gifting an asset Martha and Stephen bought a block of land in 2010. Later, after many years, they complete a transfer form to gift the block to their son, Paul. As Martha and Stephen received nothing for it, they are taken to have received the market value of the land at the time it was transferred to Paul. End of example Reducing your capital proceeds You reduce your capital proceeds from a CGT event if: you're not likely to receive some or all of the proceeds it's not due to anything you have done or failed to do you took all reasonable steps to get payment. If you repay part of the proceeds and you aren't entitled to a tax deduction for the repayment, your capital proceeds are reduced by the amount you repaid. The same applies to compensation you pay that can reasonably be regarded as a repayment of the proceeds. If you are registered for GST, any GST payable on the amount you receive is not part of the capital proceeds. Proceeds from a depreciating asset CGT doesn't apply to depreciating assets you use solely for taxable purposes. This includes assets such as business equipment or items in a rental property. If you have used a depreciating asset for private purposes, CGT may apply. There are special rules for calculating the proceeds from a depreciating asset . If you sold assets during the year, such as property or shares, work out your capital gain or loss for each asset. See, How to calculate your CGT . QC 66021 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).