Disposing of shares | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Disposing of shares Find out about disposing of shares, and capital gains and losses when you dispose of shares. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download How to dispose of shares You can dispose of your shares in the following ways: selling them giving them away ( gifting shares ) transferring them to a spouse as the result of a breakdown in your marriage or relationship through share buy-backs through mergers, takeovers and demergers because the company goes into liquidation. It's important you keep records of acquiring and disposing of shares. Capital gains and losses when disposing of shares You are likely to make either a capital gain or capital loss when you dispose of your shares . You must report the total current year capital gains, net capital losses carried forward to later income years and the net capital gain in the tax return for the income year you dispose of the shares. You make a capital gain when your capital proceeds are more than your cost base (costs of acquiring, owning and disposing of shares). Your capital proceeds are either the: money you receive when you sell your shares value of the shares when you gift your shares. You may be able to reduce your capital gain if you either: owned your shares for at least 12 months gifted them to a deductible gift recipient, provided both they are valued at less than $5,000 you acquired them at least 12 months earlier. If the capital proceeds are less than the cost base, you will need to work out the reduced cost base first. Then, if the reduced cost base is: more than the capital proceeds, the difference is a capital loss less than the capital proceeds, there is neither a capital gain nor a capital loss. You also make a capital loss on your shareholding when an administrator or liquidator makes a written declaration that a company's shares are worthless . You are entitled to reduce your capital gains by capital losses, including any carry forward capital losses, including any carry forward capital losses (apart from capital losses made in respect of personal use assets and collectables ). If you are carrying on a business of share trading and have losses on shares when you dispose of them, you may be able to claim the loss as a deduction in your tax return. To see how to enter your capital gains or losses in myTax when you've disposed of shares, watch our video How to complete myTax when you have disposed of shares External Link . For a summary fact sheet about how capital gains tax applies to the sale of shares, go to the ATO Publication Ordering Service to download Capital gains tax on the sale of shares or units External Link . Shares you received as a gift If you dispose of shares you received as a gift, you must use the shares' market value on the day that you received them as the first element of your cost base when working out your capital gain or loss. Shares you give as a gift If you give shares away as a gift, treat the shares as if you disposed of them at their market value on the day you gave this gift. This means a capital gains tax (CGT) event occurs and you must include any capital gain or loss in your tax return for the income year you gave away the shares. Example: gifting shares On 4 January 2026, Mark bought shares at a cost of $45,000, including brokerage. On 18 June 2026, Mark gifts all of these shares to his wife. The shares have a market value of $50,000 on 18 June 2026. Since this gift is a CGT event, Mark needs to calculate his capital gain or capital loss for the 2025–26 income year. He must use $45,000 as the cost base of the shares and $50,000 (the market value of the shares on the day he gifted them) as the capital proceeds. Therefore, Mark makes a capital gain of $5,000. Since he didn't own these shares for at least 12 months, he doesn't qualify for a CGT discount of 50%. That is, Mark can't reduce his capital gain of $5,000 by $2,500. As he has no other CGT event, and no capital losses (in, or carried forward to, 2025–26), Mark enters the following at the capital gains question in his tax return: $5,000 at Total current year capital gains $5,000 at Net capital gain, this means $5,000 of net capital gain gets added to his assessable income. However, if Mark had owned the shares for at least 12 months before gifting them, he would have been allowed (to his advantage) to reduce his capital gain by 50%. Therefore, he would have entered the following at the capital gains question in his tax return: $5,000 at Total current year capital gains $2,500 at Net capital gain, this means $2,500 of net capital gain gets added to his assessable income. End of example If you donate shares with a value of $5,000 or less to a deductible gift recipient (DGR), you may be able to claim a deduction. The Personal investors guide to capital gains tax has more information and examples about gifting shares. Bonus shares If you dispose of bonus shares you received on or after 20 September 1985, you may: make a capital gain have to modify your existing shares' cost base and reduced cost base in the company. Pre-CGT shares If you acquired your shares before 20 September 1985, they are exempt from CGT. This means you don’t need to calculate a capital gain or loss, and the disposal doesn’t affect your tax. You include the sale or disposal of pre-CGT shares in your tax return. At CGT exemptions and rollovers , select Capital gains disregarded as a result of the sale of a pre-CGT asset . Include the sale or disposal of pre-CGT shares in your tax return. At question Have you applied an exemption, rollover or additional discount , select the type code Capital gains disregarded as a result of the sale of a pre-CGT asset . QC 22813 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).