Share investing versus share trading | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Share investing versus share trading Work out if you are investing or trading in shares, and the difference it makes to your tax. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Tax treatment If you hold shares as an investor: your shares are assets and are subject to capital gains tax (CGT) when you sell them your costs are taken into account at the time you sell your shares if you have a capital loss you can use it to offset capital gains but not to offset income from other sources income is earned from dividends and similar receipts. If you are a share trader: your shares are treated like trading stock in the ordinary course of a business your gains are treated as ordinary income your losses and costs are treated as deductible expenses in the year they are incurred. If you change from an investor to a trader, or vice versa, the treatment of your profits or losses will also change. Tax treatment of share investors and share traders Cost or receipt Share investor Share trader Profit from the sale of shares Subject to CGT Assessable as ordinary income Loss from the sale of shares Used to offset capital gains or carried forward to offset future capital gains Can't be used to offset income from other sources Deductible against income Dividends and similar receipts Included in assessable income Included in assessable income Purchase price of shares Taken into account in calculating capital gain or loss when shares are sold Deductible in the year incurred Transaction costs of buying or selling shares Taken into account in calculating capital gain or loss when shares are sold Deductible in the year incurred Costs (such as interest on borrowed money) incurred in earning dividend income from shares Deductible in the year incurred Deductible in the year incurred How to determine if you are a share trader Determining if you are a share trader is the same as determining if your activities are considered to be carrying on a business for tax purposes. Under tax law, a business includes 'any profession, trade, employment, vocation or calling, but doesn't include occupation as an employee'. To determine if you are a share trader or a business of trading shares, the following factors have been taken into account in court cases: the nature and purpose of your activities the repetition, volume and regularity of your activities if your activities are organised in a business-like way the amount of capital invested. Nature of activity and purpose of profit making The intention to make a profit is not, on its own, sufficient to establish that a business is being carried on. A share trader carries on business activities for the purpose of earning income from buying and selling shares. Shares may be held for either investment or trading purposes, and profits on sale are earned in either case. A person who invests in shares as a shareholder (rather than a share trader) does so with the intention of earning income from dividends and receipts, but is not carrying on business activities. You need to consider not only your intention to make a profit, but also the facts of your situation. This includes how your activities have actually been carried out, or a business plan of how your activities will be carried out. A business plan might show, for example: analysis of the current market and each potential investment research to show when or where a profit may arise the basis of your decision-making on when to hold or sell shares. Repetition, volume and regularity Repetition is the frequency of transactions or the number of similar transactions. It is a key characteristic of business activities. The higher the volume of your share transactions, the more likely it is that you are carrying on a business. A business of share trading would also be expected to involve the purchase of shares on a regular basis through a regular or routine method. Organisation in a business-like way and keeping records A share-trading business could reasonably be expected to involve: study of daily and longer-term trends analysis of companies' prospectuses and annual reports seeking advice from experts. Your qualifications, expertise, training and skills in this area would also be relevant. Failure to keep records of share transactions would make it difficult for you to establish that a business of share trading was being carried on. Amount of capital invested The amount of capital you invest in shares isn't a crucial factor in determining if you are carrying on a business of share trading. It is possible to carry on business activities with a relatively small amount of capital. On the other hand, you could invest a substantial amount of capital and not be considered a share trader. Example: shareholding as an investor George is an accountant. He has: bought 200,000 shares in 20 blue chip companies over several years a total portfolio of $1.5 million. George bought the shares because of consistently high dividends, although he does invest in a small amount of growth stocks. George: monitors his share portfolio daily and analyses daily developments in equity markets using financial newspapers and stock market reports subscribes to news from online investment analysts. In the last income year, he sells 20,000 of his shares over a number of occasions for a gain of $50,000. He didn't sell his shares unless their price appreciated markedly. Although George has made a large gain on the sale of shares, and has invested a significant amount of capital, he isn't carrying on a business of share trading. He has purchased his shares for the purpose of earning dividend income rather than making a profit from buying and selling shares. End of example Changing from investor to trader, or trader to investor If you change your activities, the way you treat your shareholdings will be affected. We may ask you to provide evidence that: the nature of your activities has changed you have reported your income correctly in the past. If we review your tax returns and find that you have incorrectly claimed losses, you may be subject to penalties. Changing from investor to trader If your activities change from investor to trader, your shares change from CGT assets to trading stock. When this happens, you can choose to start holding the shares as trading stock at either: their original cost their market value at the time of the change. If you choose market value CGT event K4 occurs – CGT asset starts being trading stock. This means you make a capital gain or loss on the shares, which you must report in your tax return. You work out your capital gain or loss based on the market value of your shares at the time of the change. Any unused capital losses from prior years (when you were an investor) remain as capital losses. You can't convert them into revenue losses. You should continue to carry forward any unused capital losses until you have a capital gain to offset them against. Changing from trader to investor If your activities change from trader to investor, and you stop holding your shares as trading stock, these shares no longer form part of your business as trading stock. When your activities change, the treatment of your shares also changes, as if: just before the change, the shares were held as trading stock that you own you stopped holding the shares as trading stock and you sold them at cost to someone else, at arm's length and, in the ordinary course of business you immediately bought the shares back for the same amount. QC 66047 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).