Deductions you can claim | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Deductions you can claim Find out which expenses you can claim as income tax deductions and work out the amount to claim. Claiming deductions How to claim income tax deductions for work-related expenses and other expenses, and record your deductions. Work-related deductions Deductions you can claim for expenses that directly relate to earning your employment income. Memberships, accreditations, fees and commissions Deductions for union fees, professional memberships, working with children check, agency fees and commissions. Meals, entertainment and functions Deductions for meals, snacks, overtime meals, entertainment and functions. Gifts and donations Deductions for gifts or donations you make to deductible gift recipients, and the records you need. Investments, insurance and super Learn about deductions for investments, insurance, personal super contributions, foreign pensions and financial advice. Cost of managing tax affairs Deductions you can claim for expenses to manage your tax affairs, such as lodging with a registered agent. Occupation and industry specific guides Income and allowances to declare and the expenses you can claim a deduction for in your occupation or industry. QC 72119 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).