Family and dependants for Medicare levy surcharge purposes | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Family and dependants for Medicare levy surcharge purposes Find out who is considered a member of a family and who is a dependant for the purposes of the Medicare levy surcharge. Last updated 30 April 2026 Print or Download When you are a member of a family for the MLS For Medicare levy surcharge (MLS) purposes, you are a member of a family during a period of the year, if for the period you: had a spouse or a child who was an Australian resident (regardless of their income), and contributed to their maintenance. For the meaning of 'maintenance of a dependant', see Dependants for Medicare levy exemption . Spouse (married or de facto) for MLS purposes Your spouse includes another person (of any sex) who either: you were in a relationship with that was registered under a prescribed state or territory law although not legally married to you, lived with you on a genuine domestic basis in a relationship as a couple. An ex-spouse you pay maintenance or child support to is not your dependant. Child for MLS purposes Your child is only your dependant if they are: under 21 years old 21 to 24 years old and studying full-time at school, college or university. Your child is still your dependant if you are paying child support even if they don't live with you. Your child includes: your child, whether born in marriage or not your adopted child a newborn or newly adopted child a child of your spouse (your stepchild) someone who is your child within the meaning of the Family Law Act 1975 (for example, a child who is considered to be a child of a person under a state or territory court order giving effect to a surrogacy agreement). A foster child is not included as a dependant for MLS purposes. When you pay the MLS You may have to pay the MLS if: any member of the family did not have an appropriate level of private patient hospital cover, and your income is above a certain amount. QC 27044 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).