Medicare levy surcharge and your tax return | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Medicare levy surcharge and your tax return Information to help you complete the Medicare levy surcharge in your tax return. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Information to help you complete the Medicare levy surcharge section in your tax return. The private health insurance statement you receive from your insurer includes information that relates to the Medicare levy surcharge (MLS). It will include the number of days that your policy provided the appropriate level of private health hospital cover, as shown below. Number of days this policy provides an appropriate level of private patient hospital cover A 365 A Medicare levy surcharge may apply if you, your spouse and all your dependants didn't maintain an appropriate level of private patient hospital cover for the full income year. Use the number of days listed at A to help you complete the Medicare levy surcharge question on your tax return. We will work out if you have to pay the MLS based on the information you provide in your tax return. We will include MLS with your Medicare levy. It will show as one amount on your notice of assessment, called Medicare levy and surcharge . For information about completing the Medicare levy surcharge section in your tax return, see: Medicare levy surcharge (myTax instructions) M2 Medicare levy surcharge 2026 (paper return instructions). QC 71226 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).