Obtaining shares | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Obtaining shares How to obtain shares and what deductions you can claim. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download How you obtain shares You can obtain shares in several ways, most commonly by buying them. You should keep track of your share transactions so you can claim everything you're entitled to and work out your tax accurately. You can obtain shares through: Buying shares Inherited shares Shares as a gift Employee share scheme Bonus shares Demerger Demutualisation of an insurance company dividend reinvestment plans of companies in which you hold shares them being transferred to you as the result of a marriage or relationship breakdown a conversion of notes to shares mergers and takeovers of companies in which you hold shares. Even if you didn't pay anything for your shares, you should find out the market value at the time you obtain them – otherwise, you may pay more tax than necessary when you dispose of them. In some circumstances, you may be considered the owner of shares even if they were purchased in your child's name . Buying shares You purchase shares through either: a stockbroker (including online brokerage/stockbroking services and investing/trading apps) an initial public offering share purchase plans dividend reinvestment plans . When you buy shares, you may be a share trader or share investor. Share trader or share investor Depending on whether you are a share trader or a share investor , you will deal with income and expenses differently. A share trader conducts business activities for the purpose of earning income from buying and selling shares. A share investor invests in shares with the intention of earning income from dividends and capital growth but doesn't carry on business activities. Inherited shares You may inherit shares as part of a deceased estate . In this case: you treat inherited shares in the same way as any other capital gains tax assets where the deceased acquired the shares before 20 September 1985, you must use the market value on the day the person died, not the market value on the day you received the shares. Shares as a gift A family member may give shares to relatives, for example, a parent gives shares to their child. If you: give shares as a gift, you treat the shares as if you disposed of them at their market value on the day you gave them as a gift may have a capital gain or a capital loss – you must include any applicable capital gain or loss in your tax return for the year you gave away the shares receive shares as a gift, you treat shares as though you received them at their market value on the date you received them. Employee share scheme The tax law contains special rules for shares and rights acquired under employee share schemes , for both income tax and capital gains tax purposes. Bonus shares Bonus shares are extra shares you receive for shares you already hold in a company. Receiving bonus shares can alter the cost base or reduced cost base (costs of ownership) of both your original and bonus shares when the bonus shares are not treated as a dividend. For more information, see Guide to capital gains tax – Bonus shares . Demerger A demerger occurs when a company restructures by splitting its operations into 2 or more entities or groups. If you own shares in a company that demerges, you: have 2 different shares, the original shares plus 'new shares' you received in the demerged company may be entitled to a demerger rollover . Make sure you: are entitled to a rollover before you choose to use it declare any capital gains or losses you made under the demerger. In some demergers, you may be eligible to choose to rollover any capital gain or capital loss you make. This means you don't report your capital gain or capital loss the year the demerger occurs. Instead, you settle your tax obligations in the year that another CGT event happens to those shares. Demutualisation of an insurance company If you hold a policy in an insurance company that demutualises, you may be subject to capital gains tax either at the time of the demutualisation or when you sell your shares. Private health fund policies and policies held with friendly societies are treated in the same way if the fund or society demutualises. Paper losses for investors Capital losses only happen when you dispose of the investments, such as selling them. If the price drops but you continue to own the investment, it's referred to as a 'paper loss'. You can't claim 'paper losses' on investments. If you have a capital loss from the disposal of investments, you can offset this against capital gains. You can't offset the loss against other types of income. You should declare the loss in your tax return and it can be carried forward to offset against future capital gains. Deductions when obtaining investment shares You can't claim deductions for costs, such as brokerage and other costs, related to purchasing your investment shares. These costs form part of the cost base of the share. The difference between the capital proceeds and cost base or reduced cost base is either a capital gain or capital loss. You need to keep proof of all your share transactions from the beginning to ensure you can claim everything you're entitled to. If you have used a capital protected product (capital protected borrowing) to fund the acquisition of your shares, you may need to find out how to calculate deductions for a capital protected borrowing. Investigate before investing There are several ways to check the legitimacy of an investment and its promoter: Check a promoter's licence at Check before you invest – Moneysmart.gov.au External Link . Check if the scheme has a product ruling . Read the product disclosure statement (PDS) or prospectus for the investment. Get independent advice from an adviser who has no connection with the seller or the investment scheme. Check our taxpayer alerts to find out if the scheme has any of the characteristics described in the alerts. Capital protected products and borrowings As an investor, you may use a capital protected product to fund the acquisition of investments. How to calculate deductions for a capital protected borrowing Work out how to calculate any deductions you can claim if you use a capital protected product or borrowing. QC 22811 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).