Expenses for a vehicle that isn't yours or isn't a car | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Expenses for a vehicle that isn't yours or isn't a car Deductions for work-related use of a vehicle that either does not belong to you or is not a car. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Claiming a deduction for vehicle expenses You can claim a deduction for work-related expenses for a vehicle that either: does not belong to you (is someone else's car) is not a car (such as a truck or motorcycle, whether it belongs to you or someone else). A tax deduction for these expenses is claimed as a work-related travel expense , rather than a work-related car expense. To claim a deduction: The expenses must be for work-related trips . You can claim for trips between workplaces or to perform your work duties. You can't claim for trips between your home and place of work, except in limited circumstances. You must have spent the money yourself and weren't reimbursed. You must have a record of your expenses. If your travel is partly private, you can only claim a deduction for the work-related portion of the expenses you incur. If the vehicle is a car and belongs to you, you calculate and claim your deduction in a different way. See Expenses for a car you own or lease . If you receive an allowance from your employer for vehicle expenses, you must include it as assessable income in your tax return. The allowance amount is shown on your income statement or payment summary. Someone else's vehicle This means a vehicle owned by your employer or anyone other than you. You can't claim running costs for a car you use under a salary sacrifice or novated lease arrangement. In this situation the car is usually leased by your employer from a financing company, and your employer typically pays for the running costs and claims deductions. You can claim additional expenses, like parking and tolls associated with your work use of the car. If you use a car owned by a family member, and you can show there is a private arrangement that made you the owner or lessee of the car (even if you aren't the registered owner), you work out your car expenses as though it is your car . A vehicle that isn't a car Vehicles that are not cars include motorcycles, scooters and similar vehicles, and vehicles with: one tonne or greater carrying capacity such as trucks, heavy vehicles and some utes a carrying capacity of 9 or more passengers (including the driver), such as a minibus. Calculate deduction for vehicle expenses To claim a deduction for a vehicle that isn't yours or isn't a car, you: work out your actual expenses for your work-related travel in the vehicle claim the deduction in your tax return as a work-related travel expense (not as a work-related car expense). You can't use the cents per kilometre method or the logbook method to work out your claim. However, as you can only claim a deduction for the expenses related to your work-related travel, you may wish to keep a document similar to a logbook to calculate your work-related use percentage. While it is not a requirement, it is the easiest way to show how you calculated the expenses related to your work-related travel. Keeping records of vehicle expenses You must keep: evidence of how you calculated your work-related use of the vehicle original receipts for all of your vehicle expenses details of how you work out your claim for the decline in value of the vehicle, including the effective life and method you use. If your vehicle is electric or a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV), and you're relying on the home charging rate outlined in Practical Compliance Guideline PCG 2024/2 Electric vehicle home charging rate – calculating electricity costs when a vehicle is charged at an employee’s or individual’s home , you'll also need to keep an electricity bill for your residential premises showing you incurred electricity costs. PCG 2024/2 is only available for PHEVs from 1 July 2024 onwards. You can use the myDeductions tool in the ATO app to keep your vehicle expense records. Example: actual work-related expenses for a motorcycle Ben buys a motorcycle that he uses for his work, making local deliveries. He also uses his motorcycle when he's not working. To help work out his work-related use he decides to keep a record, similar to a logbook, that shows his work-related and private trips. Ben's logbook shows he travelled a total of 3,000 kilometres on his motorcycle for the whole income year. During the 12 week period he kept his record of trips, he travelled 800 kilometres in total, with 600 kilometres being work-related. Ben calculates his work use percentage as 75% (600 ÷ 800). Ben keeps receipts for all his expenses. His total expenses for the motorcycle for the income year were: Fuel and oil $560 Repair $400 Registration $540 Compulsory Third Party insurance $300 Decline in value $1,800 Total $3,600 To work out his tax deduction, Ben multiplies his total expense by his work use percentage: $3,600 × 75% = $2,700 End of example QC 72125 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).