Tools, computers and items you use for work | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Tools, computers and items you use for work Deductions for tools, computers, internet, stationery, books and other items you use for work. Tools and equipment to perform your work Deductions for tools or instruments you use for work, including the cost of repairs and insurance. Mobile phone mobile internet and other devices Deductions for mobile phone calls and internet expenses you incur for a work-related purpose, including the device. Computers laptops and software Deductions for computers, laptops and software you use for work, including the cost of repairs. Home phone and internet expenses Deductions for home phone, internet and other online services you use for work. Bags and cases for work items Deductions for bags, cases, luggage, lunch boxes and travel mugs you use for work. Stationery and office supplies Deductions for stationery and supplies such as pens, printer ink, and paper you use for work. Office furniture and equipment Deductions for equipment or furniture, such as a desk or chair you use for work, including repairs. Books periodicals and digital information Deductions for books, journals, periodicals, digital information, newspapers and magazines you use for work. Interest and transaction expenses to buy items for work Deductions for interest and transaction fee expenses, you incur on items you buy for work. Depreciating assets you use for work As an employee, find out how to claim for your depreciating assets and work out decline in value. QC 72138 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).