Amounts you do not include as income | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Amounts you do not include as income Amounts that you earn or receive that you don't need to declare as income. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Amounts you don't include You may receive money that you don't need to include as assessable income in your tax return. You may still need to report these amounts so we can work out your tax losses or eligibility for tax offsets or benefits. Amounts you don’t include as assessable income fall into 3 categories: exempt income non-assessable, non-exempt income other non-taxable amounts. Exempt income Exempt income is income you don't pay tax on (that is, it's tax-free). However, you may still need to report these in your tax return as we use certain exempt income amounts to work out other calculations such as: tax losses of earlier income years that you can deduct adjusted taxable income of your dependants. Exempt income includes: certain Australian Government pensions, such as the   disability support pension paid by Centrelink to a person who is under age-pension age invalidity service pension paid under the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 where the veteran is under age-pension age certain Australian Government allowances and payments, such as the carer allowance child care subsidy certain overseas pay and allowances for Australian Defence Force  and Federal Police personnel Australian Government education payments, such as allowances for students under 16 years old Commonwealth secondary education assistance some scholarships, bursaries, grants and awards a lump sum payment you received on surrender of an insurance policy where you are the original beneficial owner of the policy – generally you do not earn, expect, rely on or regularly receive these payments – examples include mortgage protection terminal illness a permanent injury occurring at work. Non-assessable, non-exempt income Non-assessable, non-exempt income is income that we don't assess and you don't pay tax on. It doesn't affect your tax losses. Non-assessable, non-exempt income includes: the tax-free component of an employment termination payment genuine redundancy payments and early retirement scheme payments shown as 'Lump sum D' amounts on your income statement super co-contributions certain disaster payments and grants . Other non-taxable amounts Generally, you don't declare amounts you receive for: rewards or gifts on special occasions, such as cash birthday presents and gifts from relatives given out of love (however, gifts may be taxable if you receive them as part of a business-like activity or for your income-earning activities as an employee or contractor) prizes you won in ordinary lotteries, such as lotto draws and raffles prizes you won in game shows, unless you receive regular appearance fees or game-show winnings child support and spouse maintenance payments you receive. QC 72118 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).