Property and capital gains tax | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Property and capital gains tax How CGT affects real estate, including rental properties, land, improvements and your home. Capital gains tax when selling your rental property How capital gains tax (CGT) applies to your rental property and what expenses you can include in your costs. Your main residence - home Find out if your home is exempt from CGT, and what happens if you rent it out. Transferring property to family or friends Check if you need to use the market value of your property when working out your CGT. Granny flat arrangements and CGT Find out if your granny flat arrangement is exempt from CGT. Subdividing and combining land How to work out CGT when you sell land that you subdivided or amalgamated. Property improvements and additions Use the cost thresholds to check if your capital improvements to your property are subject to CGT. Keeping records for property Which records you need to keep for your property to work out CGT when you sell it. CGT discount for affordable housing Work out how you can reduce your capital gains tax when you sell a property that you used for affordable rental housing. Calculating your CGT How to calculate your capital gains tax (CGT), including how to use capital losses and work out your cost base. QC 66026 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).