Your tax return | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Your tax return Your tax return is a form you can complete online or by paper, get help from a tax agent or our Tax Help program. Before you prepare your tax return Find out what's new or is changing this income year and work out if you need to lodge a tax return. How to lodge your tax return Check what options you have to lodge your tax return yourself or with help from someone else. Help and support to lodge your tax return If you need help lodging your tax return our Tax Help program is free and helps individuals with simple tax affairs. Check the progress of your tax return Check the progress of your tax return using our self-help services. Most returns lodged online process within 2 weeks. Your notice of assessment Your notice of assessment is the statement we issue when your tax return or franking credits lodgment is processed. Amend your tax return Find out how to correct or fix a tax return if you make a mistake or, contact us if we've made an error. Instructions to complete your tax return Find instructions to help you complete your tax return. Data-matching letters Where we find a difference in details on your tax return and data reported to us, we'll send you a letter. If you disagree with an ATO decision You can dispute or object to our decision if you disagree with it. If you don't lodge What happens if you don't lodge a tax return, activity statement, other documents or information by the due date. QC 32089 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).