Working from home expenses | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Working from home expenses Deductions for expenses you incur as a result of working from home such as stationery, energy and office equipment. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Eligibility to claim To claim working from home expenses, you must: work from home to fulfil your employment duties, not just carrying out minimal tasks, such as occasionally checking emails or taking calls incur additional running expenses because you work from home have records that show you incurred these expenses, for example receipts. To calculate your deduction for working from home expenses, you must use one of the methods set out below. When incurring running expenses for both private and work purposes, you need to apportion your deduction. You can only claim the work-related portion as a deduction. Media: Claiming a work from home deduction https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bi9or7orgeamhm External Link ( Duration: 2:13) Additional running expenses Running expenses relate to the use of facilities within your home. These expenses are generally considered private and domestic. You can claim a deduction for additional running expenses you incur as a direct result of working from home. Additional running expenses may include: electricity or gas (energy expenses) for heating or cooling and lighting home and mobile internet or data expenses mobile and home phone expenses stationery and office supplies the decline in value of depreciating assets you use for work – for example office furniture such as chairs and desks equipment such as computers, laptops and software the repairs and maintenance to depreciating assets. In limited circumstances where you have a dedicated home office, you may also be able to claim: occupancy expenses (such as mortgage interest or rent) cleaning expenses. If your employer pays you an allowance to cover your working from home expenses, you must include it as income in your tax return. If you're a sole trader or business owner and your home is your principal place of business, see Deductions for home-based business expenses . Choosing a method to calculate your claim There are 2 methods available to calculate your claim: Fixed rate method an amount per work hour for additional running expenses allows separate claims for expenses not covered by the fixed rate, such as the decline in value of depreciating assets doesn't require you to have a dedicated home office. Actual cost method   the actual expenses you incur as a result of working from home. You must keep records to show you incur expenses as a result of working from home. The type of records you need to keep will depend on the method you choose to calculate your expenses. For a summary of this information in PDF format, see Working from home deduction (PDF, 571 KB) This link will download a file . Expenses you can't claim You can't claim a deduction for: coffee, tea, milk and other general household items, even if your employer provides these at work items your employer provides – for example, a laptop or a mobile phone expenses your employer reimburses you for the cost. Fixed rate method Check your eligibility to calculate your working from home expenses using the fixed rate method. Actual cost method Check if you're eligible to calculate your work from home expenses using the actual cost method. Occupancy expenses Check if you're eligible to claim occupancy expenses when you work from home. QC 72158 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).