Eligibility for main residence exemption | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Eligibility for main residence exemption Check if you qualify for the main residence exemption and if your home is considered a dwelling. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Eligibility conditions Your main residence (your home) is exempt from Capital Gains Tax (CGT) if you're an Australian resident and the dwelling: has been the home of you, your partner and other dependants for the whole period you have owned it hasn't been used to produce income – that is, you haven't run a business from it, rented it out or 'flipped' it (bought it to renovate and sell at a profit) is on land of 2 hectares or less. If you meet these conditions, you don't pay tax on any capital gain when you sell your home and you ignore any capital loss. If you don't meet all these conditions, you may still be entitled to a partial exemption. You can work out the proportion that is exempt using the CGT property exemption tool. CGT property exemption tool For a summary fact sheet with common scenarios about CGT and eligibility for the main residence exemption, go to the ATO Publication Ordering Service to download Capital gains tax and the main residence exemption (NAT 75488, PDF, 301KB) External Link . What is a main residence? Generally, a dwelling is considered to be your main residence if: you and your family live in it your personal belongings are in it it is the address your mail is delivered to it is your address on the electoral roll services such as gas and power are connected. The length of time you stay in the dwelling and if you intend to occupy it as your home may also be relevant. To be your main residence, your property must have a dwelling on it and you must have lived in it. Vacant land You're not entitled to the exemption for a vacant block. If you subdivide and sell land that used to be part of your home, you need to consider if any profit is treated as a capital gain or income. What is a dwelling? A dwelling is anything used wholly or mainly for residential accommodation, for example: a house or cottage an apartment or flat a strata title unit a unit in a retirement village a caravan, houseboat or other mobile home. The main residence exemption can extend to garages, storerooms or other structures associated with a flat or home unit, to the extent they are used primarily for private or domestic purposes in association with the flat or home unit. However, the exemption only applies if the adjacent structure, is sold together with the flat or home unit. Foreign residents If you weren't a resident of Australia for tax purposes while you were living in the property, you are unlikely to satisfy the requirements for the main residence exemption. If you are a foreign resident when a CGT event happens to your residential property in Australia (for example, you sell it), you may not be entitled to claim the main residence exemption. QC 69710 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).