Records for rental properties and holiday homes | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Records for rental properties and holiday homes Find out about what records to keep and for how long for rental properties and holiday homes. Last updated 21 May 2026 Print or Download How long to keep rental records You need to keep records for 5 years. Depending on your situation, that is 5 years from the date: you lodge your tax return of your last claim for the decline in value of an asset it is certain that no capital gains tax event can occur after you acquire, sell or otherwise dispose of property you resolve any disputes you have with us. If you incurred a tax loss or made a net capital loss in an income year, you should keep records relevant to how you calculated the loss until at least the end of the time limit you have to amend the assessment for the income year when the tax loss is fully deducted or net capital loss is fully applied to other capital gains. You will need these records to work out how much: rental income you need to declare you can claim as a deduction for your expenses capital gain or loss you make when you dispose of your rental property. In some circumstances, you may need to provide these records as proof that you were the one to incur the expense. Format of your rental records Rental records must be in English or be readily translatable into English. You can keep your records in either paper or digital format. If you make copies, they must be a true and clear copy of the original. We recommend you keep a back-up of all your digital records. Types of rental records to keep You should keep records of the following transactions for your rental property or holiday home: Rental income Rental expenses When you buy a rental While you own a rental When you sell a rental Rental income Records of the amounts you receive, for example: a statement from your property or managing agent a rent book or bank statements that shows the rental payments going into your account documents that show a record of any bond money you retain in place of rent. For more information on rental income, see Rental income you must declare . Rental expenses Records for expenses you incur, for example: bank statements showing the interest charged on money you borrowed for the rental property loan documents land tax assessments documents or receipts that show amounts you pay for the property, for example: advertising (including efforts to rent out the property) bank charges council rates gardening property agent fees repairs or maintenance documents showing details of expenses related to: the decline in value of depreciating assets any capital works expenses, such as structural improvements before and after photos for any capital works. If you have a holiday home and weren't able to deduct ownership and use expenses, you may be able to add these amounts to the cost base of the property when you sell it, so you should keep records that relate to these expenses. When you buy a rental property Records when you buy (invest) in a rental property, for example: contract of purchase conveyancing documents loan documents costs to buy the property borrowing expenses. While you own a rental property Records for while you own a rental property, for example: documents that show periods of personal use by you or your friends documents that show periods the property is used as your main residence loan documents if you refinance your property documents, receipts and before and after photos for capital improvements tenant leases documents for all rental expenses . When you sell your rental property Records for when you sell or otherwise dispose of your rental property, for example: contract of sale conveyancing documents sale of property fees calculation of capital gain or loss. Records for multiple properties Keep separate records for each property, if you have: more than one property (including a block of apartments or similar) a duplex property that has been sub-divided. This will ensure that you declare the correct rental income and claim the correct rental expenses for each property. It will also ensure that if you later sell or otherwise dispose of one or part of a property, you will have records to work out your capital gain or loss. QC 66379 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).