Children's share investments | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Children's share investments If your child is under 18 years old and they buy shares, find out about quoting a TFN and declaring dividends. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Quoting a tax file number When you buy shares, you have a choice whether you quote a tax file number (TFN). If you quote a TFN, you pay taxes on the dividends when you lodge the tax return. If the shareholder is the: child, quote the child's TFN parent, as trustee for the child, and no formal trust exists, quote the parent's TFN there is a formal trust, quote the trust's TFN. A child can apply for a TFN – there is no minimum age. Children are not exempt from quoting a TFN. If you don't quote a TFN, pay as you go (PAYG) tax will be withheld at 47% from the unfranked amount of your dividend income. Declaring dividends Whoever rightfully owns and controls the shares declares the dividends and any net capital loss or gain from the sale of shares. You need to consider who: provides the money for the shares makes share decisions spends the dividend income. If there are large amounts of money or a regular turnover, you might need to examine the ownership of the shares further, including finding more information to work out who should declare the dividends. If parents or grandparents hold shares for a child, they are treated as the owners of the shares, unless the child is the genuine beneficial owner. If the child is the beneficial owner, you should declare the dividends in the child's tax return. Income from shares is treated differently to income from interest (for example, from Children's savings accounts ). Example: parent uses dividends Peter withdraws $3,000 from his own bank account to buy shares in the name of his daughter Georgia. Peter quotes his TFN when he buys the shares. He deposits the dividend of $200 into his own bank account and uses it for his own personal expenses. Peter declares the $200 in his tax return. When he sells the shares, he will also declare any capital gain or loss. Example: dividends reinvested for child Sara buys shares for her child, Michael, with money given to him for his birthday. Sara holds the shares for the benefit of Michael with the share broker until he turns 18. No formal trust deed has been created. Sara quotes Michael's TFN when she buys the shares. All dividends have been reinvested through a dividend reinvestment plan. The dividends are declared in Michael's tax returns. When Michael turns 18 years old, the shares will be transferred to him through an off-market transfer. As he remains the beneficial owner of the shares, there will be no capital gain or loss for either Sara or Michael on the transfer. End of example Lodging a tax return If your child owns shares and earns more than $416, you must lodge a tax return on their behalf. If your child earns $416 or less, you may need to either: lodge a tax return on their behalf if too much PAYG tax was withheld claim a refund for franking credit by lodging a tax return or completing an Application for refund of franking credit . In some circumstances children's income is taxed at the highest marginal rate. For more information about tax rates for people under 18, see Your income if you are under 18 years old . Example: declaring dividends in child's tax return Simon withdraws $5,000 from his bank account to buy shares in the name of his son Jordan. He quotes Jordan's TFN when he buys the shares. Simon makes all the decisions about those shares as Jordan is only 3 years old. All dividend income and any profit from the sale of those shares are deposited into a bank account in Jordan's name with Simon as trustee. The dividends and capital gains are declared in Jordan's tax return. Example: child with part-time job Jenny buys shares on behalf of her daughter, Talia, with money saved from Talia's part-time job, plus money received for Talia's birthday. Talia and Jenny decide not to quote Talia's TFN. Dividends of $500 are deposited in Talia's bank account. Talia declares the $500 in her tax return. She will need to make an adjustment in her tax return so that the proportion of the dividend that relates to shares acquired with her employment income is taxed at normal tax rates. The proportion that relates to shares acquired with the gift money is taxed at a higher rate. When those shares are sold, any capital gain or loss from the sale will belong to Talia. End of example QC 16210 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).