Taxi, ride-share and public transport expenses | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Taxi, ride-share and public transport expenses Deductions for work-related transport expenses such as flights, trips by train, bus, taxi or ride-share, and tolls. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Claiming a deduction for transport expenses To claim a tax deduction for transport expenses: the expenses must be work related you can claim for trips between workplaces or to perform your work duties (such as a taxi ride to the airport from your office to go on a work-related trip) you can't claim for trips between your home and place of work, except in limited circumstances you must have spent the money yourself and weren't reimbursed you must have a record of your expenses. If your travel is partly private, you can only claim a deduction for the work-related portion of the expenses you incur. You claim the deduction in your income tax return as a work-related travel expense. Types of transport expenses you can claim You can claim transport expenses such as: train, taxi, boat or bus fares ride-share and ride-sourcing flights short-term hire of a car road and bridge tolls and parking fees. For expenses related to using a car or similar vehicle, see Motor vehicle and car expenses. Keeping records and written evidence for transport expenses The information you must keep includes: a record (such as a diary note) explaining of how the transport was work-related and your travel movements and activities such as where you were what you were doing the start and end times for activities written evidence (such as receipts) for the cost of fares for air, bus, train, tram and taxi or ride-share travel, bridge and road tolls, parking and car-hire fees. If you receive an allowance from your employer to cover transport expenses, you must include it as assessable income in your tax return. The allowance amount is shown on your income statement or payment summary. QC 72127 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).