Understanding concessional and non-concessional contributions | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Understanding concessional and non-concessional contributions Understand which contributions are before-tax or after-tax and how super and tax rules apply to them. Last updated 15 January 2026 Print or Download Tax and restrictions on contributions Your superannuation is usually taxed at a lower rate than most income and investments. However, if your contributions exceed thresholds (called 'caps') that apply to concessional and non-concessional contributions, the amounts above the caps will be taxed at a higher rate. The tax you pay on super contributions depends on: the source of the contributions – whether they're paid from your before-tax income (concessional contributions) or after-tax income (non-concessional contributions) whether you exceed the concessional or non-concessional contribution caps your income level – additional tax may apply if you are a high-income earner. If you have more than one super fund, all your contributions to all funds are added up and count towards your caps. How much you can contribute to your super fund, and whether your fund is allowed to accept your contribution may also depend on your age and work status and your total super balance . If your income and concessional super contributions together add up to more than $250,000 in a financial year, you may also have to pay Division 293 tax on your contributions. While there are restrictions on contributions, and your total super balance affects how super rules apply to you, there is no limit on the total amount you can hold in accumulation phase accounts in one or more super funds. What happens if you go over the super contributions caps Media: Depending on your age and the type of contribution https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bd1bdiubfo8e4j External Link ( Duration: 1:45) Concessional contributions Concessional contributions are contributions to your super fund made from income that has not yet been taxed ('before-tax' contributions). They include: employer contributions, such as employer super guarantee contributions and any superannuation guarantee charge (SGC) shortfall amounts we've collected from your employer when they failed to pay contributions to your fund on time salary sacrificed contributions additional before tax contributions your employer makes as part of an agreement with you, or under an award or other industrial instrument other amounts paid by your employer from your before-tax income to your super fund, such as administration fees and insurance premiums personal contributions you're entitled to claim and have claimed as an income tax deduction paid parental leave superannuation contributions notional taxed contributions to defined benefit and constitutionally protected funds unfunded defined benefit contributions some amounts allocated from a fund reserve (amounts that form part of the fund's assessable income) amounts transferred from a foreign super fund where the assessable amount is greater than the vested amount at time of transfer for people over 18, contributions by a spouse living separately and apart from you on a permanent basis a parent, child, relative or friend any other third party other than an employer or your spouse. Concessional contributions are taxed in your super fund at the rate of 15%. The tax is paid from your contributions by your super fund. Non-concessional contributions Non-concessional contributions are contributions to your super fund made from income that has already been taxed ('after-tax' contributions). They are not subject to additional tax unless you exceed the cap. Non-concessional contributions include: contributions you or your employer make from your after-tax income contributions your current spouse makes to your super fund (unless your spouse is contributing for you as your employer) personal contributions you have not claimed and been allowed as an income tax deduction excess concessional (before-tax) contributions you have not released from your super fund contributions exceeding the lifetime CGT cap allowable under the small business CGT exemptions retirement benefits you withdraw from a super fund and 're-contribute' to super and which you have not claimed or been allowed as an income tax deduction contributions made for you by someone else if you are under 18 and the contributor is not your employer most transfers from foreign super funds (including New Zealand KiwiSaver contributions ), not including amounts in your fund's assessable income life insurance premiums and fund fees (in some cases). Exclusions from non-concessional contributions The following types of contributions don't count towards your non-concessional contributions cap: personal injury payments (also known as structured settlement contributions) contributions you chose to count towards your capital gains tax (CGT) cap that have not exceeded your lifetime limit downsizer contributions from the proceeds of selling your home re-contribution of COVID-19 early release superannuation amounts These types of contributions are only excluded if you meet all the relevant conditions. You must specifically ask your fund to exclude them by providing the relevant form before or when you contribute. Government co-contributions are also not counted as non-concessional contributions. You don't need to take any action for these to be excluded. Personal injury election amounts You may be able to exclude personal contributions arising from a personal injury payment from counting towards your non-concessional contributions cap. You can only use the exclusion for the part of the payment that is compensation or damages for your personal injury. You must advise your fund that you are choosing (electing) to exclude the amount before or when you make the contribution. Otherwise, your fund must report the amounts as personal contributions. Your election can be made using the Contributions for personal injury election form . It is not compulsory to use the form but must provide your fund with all the information required by the form. There is no limit on the amount you can claim as a personal injury election amount, but there are strict conditions on the contributions you can claim the exclusion for. If the exclusion doesn't apply to you, the amount will be treated as a normal personal contribution and count towards your non-concessional contributions cap. Example: personal injury compensation Bruce was injured in a car accident. As a result of his injury, he is not expected to ever work again in a role for which he is suited through education, training or experience. Two qualified medical practitioners have certified this. Three years after his injury, Bruce receives $2 million from the insurers as a structured settlement of his claim. This amount is comprised of: $1.5 million compensation for personal injury $500,000 compensation for medical costs. Bruce contributes $1.75 million to his super within 90 days of receiving the payment. He uses the remaining $250,000 to pay the debts he accrued for hospital stays and physiotherapy as a result of his injury. Bruce can only elect to exclude $1.5 million of the contribution (the part of the payment which was compensation for the personal injury) from being counted towards his non-concessional cap. The remaining $250,000 will count towards his non-concessional cap. End of example Super CGT cap election amounts under small business exemptions You may be able to choose (elect) to exclude personal contributions of amounts arising from a capital gains tax (CGT) event from counting towards your non-concessional contributions cap. To make this election, the amount you contribute must arise from a capital gains event, or a CGT look-through earnout right, and meet the requirements of either the: small business 15-year exemption small business retirement exemption If you contribute an amount arising from a CGT event to your super, it will not count towards your non-concessional contributions cap if you notify your fund using the Capital gains tax cap election form. There is a lifetime cap on the amount you can contribute to your super under these exemptions without counting towards for non-concessional contributions cap (see CGT cap election ). You must provide this form to your fund before or at the time you make the contribution. Otherwise, your fund must report the amount as a personal contribution. Use of this approved election form is not compulsory. However, you must provide your fund with all the information required by the form. If the exclusion criteria for either exemption does not apply to you, the amount will be treated as a normal personal contribution. It will count towards your non-concessional contributions cap. Example: super CGT cap election Barry owned a small business for 33 years. When he was 72 years old, he started selling his business assets in preparation for retirement. He is eligible to use the small business 15-year exemption. In the 2022–23 income year, Barry contributed to his super fund $550,000 of the capital proceeds he received from selling some of his eligible assets. At the same time, he notified his fund that he was electing to use $550,000 of his super CGT cap, under the small business 15-year exemption. This was to exclude the contribution from counting towards his non-concessional contributions for the year. Barry's super CGT cap for the year is $1,650,000, reduced to $1,100,000 after his election to use $550,000 of his super CGT cap. End of example Compensation arising from financial advice Your super fund may receive compensation from a financial services provider if you received inappropriate financial advice, or if you paid fees but did not receive advice. The compensation may be a refund or reimbursement of adviser fees, or an amount to compensate for lost earnings. It may also include an interest component. The compensation may count towards your contribution caps depending on your circumstances. If the finance service provider paid the compensation to your super fund without your direction, the compensation will be a concessional contribution in the financial year the fund received it. The compensation will be a non-concessional contribution in the financial year it was received by the fund if it was paid to your super fund and allocated to your account, and either of the following applies: the compensation was paid to you, and you subsequently contributed it as a personal contribution to your super fund you directed the financial service provider to pay the compensation that was payable to you into your super fund. It will be a concessional contribution to the extent that it is covered by a valid and acknowledged notice of intent to claim a deduction, and is allowable as a deduction. For more guidance, see Super contribution caps in our Legal Database . First home super saver scheme contributions You can contribute an amount up to your existing superannuation contribution caps into your super fund to save for your first home under the first home super saver (FHSS) scheme . If you exceed your caps (even if you made contributions only for the purposes of the FHSS scheme), you could pay more tax. This will be separate to any tax you pay on the FHSS release amount. Your FHSS contributions count towards your contribution caps in the year they are received by your fund. QC 23223 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).