Investments in a company in liquidation or administration | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Investments in a company in liquidation or administration Check if you can realise a capital loss on shares or investments in a company in liquidation or administration. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Shareholders and investors You may be able to claim a capital loss if you're: a shareholder, and a liquidator or an administrator of a company declares in writing that they have reasonable grounds to believe there is no likelihood that shareholders will receive any further distribution for their shares an investor who holds a financial instrument in a company, and the liquidator or administrator of the company makes a declaration in writing that the financial instrument has no value or negligible value – such financial instruments may include convertible notes debentures bonds promissory notes loans to the company futures contracts forward contracts and currency swap contracts relating to the company rights or options to acquire any of these, including rights or options to acquire shares in a company. Liquidator or administrator's role The decision about whether or not to make a declaration, and the time at which to make it, rests solely with the liquidator or administrator. They can make written declarations about shares and financial instruments in the same statement – for example, a declaration for a share and an option to acquire a share. You can't claim a capital loss for a financial instrument, such as a right or option to acquire a share, if a liquidator or an administrator declares they consider the shares are worthless but doesn't make a declaration that they consider the financial instrument is of no value or has only negligible value. When you can't choose to make a capital loss You can't choose to make a capital loss for: a financial instrument where any profit made on the disposal or redemption of it would be included in your assessable income or any loss would be deductible – such as a traditional security or qualifying security. See, Taxation Ruling TR96/14 Income tax: traditional securities . a unit in a unit trust or a financial instrument relating to a trust certain interests acquired under employee share schemes. Employee share schemes If your shares or rights were acquired under an employee share scheme (ESS), these CGT rules don't apply to: a right acquired before 1 July 2009 an ESS interest or an ESS interest that is a beneficial interest in a right that is forfeited and is taken to have been acquired. This ensures the tax consequences for shares you acquire for less than their market value are dealt with under the ESS tax rules before any potential capital gains tax rules apply. Conditions that must be satisfied You may choose to make a capital loss if all the following conditions apply: You are an Australian resident for income tax purposes. You hold a share or financial instrument relating to a company that went into liquidation or administration. You acquired the share or financial instrument after 19 September 1985. A liquidator or administrator of the company made a written declaration that they believed the shares were worthless or the financial instruments had no value or negligible value. Any gain or loss you would make on the share or financial instrument is a capital gain or capital loss – that is, you hold the share or financial instrument as an investment asset and not as trading stock (see Share trading as business ) as part of carrying on a business to make a short-term or ‘one-off’ commercial gain. Working out the capital loss If you choose to make the capital loss when the declaration is made, your capital loss is equal to the reduced cost base of the shares (or financial instruments) at the time of the declaration by the liquidator or administrator. If you make the choice, the cost base and reduced cost base of the shares (or financial instruments) are reduced to nil just after the liquidator or administrator makes the declaration. This is relevant for working out if you make a capital gain from any later capital gains tax (CGT) event happening to the shares (or financial instruments). You indicate that you have chosen to make the capital loss by the amounts you show at the capital gains tax question on your tax return for that year. Receiving further payments after the declaration You may receive a further payment in respect of your shares if, for example, court action was successful in recovering money for the company or its shareholders. Company dissolved more than 18 months after a payment: If you receive a payment after the date of the declaration and the payment isn't assessable to you as a dividend, you may make a capital gain at the time you receive the payment. Company dissolved within 18 months of a payment: If the payment is made to you by a liquidator after the declaration and the company is dissolved within 18 months of a payment, the payment is included as capital proceeds on the cancellation of your shares (rather than you making a capital gain at the time of the payment). In preparing your tax return you may delay declaring any capital gain until your shares are cancelled, unless you are advised by the liquidator in writing that the company will not cease to exist within 18 months of you receiving the payment. Example: capital loss when company dissolves On 31 March 2026, the administrators of Company Ltd made a written declaration that they had reasonable grounds to believe there was no likelihood that shareholders would receive any distribution for their shares. At the time of the declaration, Dave owned 1,000 Company Ltd shares. Following the declaration by the administrators, he chose to claim a capital loss for his Company Ltd shares in his 2025–26 tax return. Dave acquired his Company Ltd shares in March 2013 for $1.70 each, including brokerage costs. Therefore, the reduced cost base of Dave’s Company Ltd shares and his capital loss in respect of those shares is $1,700 – that is, 1,000 multiplied by $1.70. In working out his net capital gain or net capital loss for the 2025–26 year, Dave takes the capital loss of $1,700 from his Company Ltd shares into account. End of example Example: company dissolved more than 18 months after a payment The administrators of Company Ltd made a written declaration on 31 March 2024 that they had reasonable grounds to believe that there was no likelihood that the shareholders of Company Ltd would receive any distribution from their shares. Dave purchased 1,000 shares in Company Ltd in March 2013 for $1.70, including brokerage costs. Following the administrators’ declaration, Dave chose to make capital losses equal to the reduced cost bases of his shares as at 31 March 2024. Therefore, the reduced cost base of Dave’s shares and his capital loss in respect of those shares is $1,700. Dave claimed the capital losses in his 2024 tax return. On 1 March 2026, Court action was successful in recovering $0.10 per share for the shareholders. As more than 18 months had passed since the administrator's declaration back in 2024, the recovery of $100 – that is, 1,000 × $0.10, is assessable as a capital gain in Dave's 2025–26 tax return. End of example Where a company liquidation affects a large number of people, we may provide specific guidance on the tax implications. For further information you can: ask the company for details go to our legal database and search <company name> for class rulings – you may need to refine your search by ‘Rulings’. QC 52234 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).