When CGT applies to shares and units | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search When CGT applies to shares and units Find out when CGT applies to selling shares or receiving certain distributions. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download When CGT applies Selling your shares or units is the most common CGT event , but there are others. A CGT event may occur if you: redeem units in a managed fund by switching them from one fund to another make an in specie transfer accept an offer from a company to buy back your shares receive a distribution (other than a dividend) from a unit trust or managed fund receive non-assessable payments from a company own shares in a company that is taken over by or merges with another company own shares in a company that is placed in liquidation or administration and the shares (or other financial instruments) are declared worthless by the liquidator or administrator. If you sell shares or have another CGT event, you need to calculate your CGT and report it in your tax return. When a corporate group restructures, we often publish a class ruling or fact sheet. For further information you can: ask the company for details go to our legal database and search <company name> for class rulings – you may need to refine your search by ‘Rulings’. For a video showing how to enter your capital gains and losses in myTax when you dispose of shares, see Disposing of shares . When CGT doesn't apply CGT doesn't apply to: dividends you receive from your investments – these are taxed as ordinary income profits on the sale of shares if you are carrying on a business of share trading – these are taxed as ordinary business income rather than capital gains. QC 66045 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).