When you can claim losses on shares and units | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search When you can claim losses on shares and units Find out what triggers a claimable loss on shares and units, and how you claim it in your tax return. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Shares must be disposed of You can only claim a loss for shares or units you have disposed of. You can't claim a 'paper loss' on investments you continue to hold. Share investor If you made the loss holding the shares or units as an investor , it is a capital loss. On your tax return, you can: offset the loss against any capital gains carry forward any unused losses to offset against future capital gains. Your capital loss can't be: offset against your income from other sources converted to revenue losses in future years – this is the case even if you haven't been able to offset it against a capital gain. Share trader If you made the loss carrying on a business of share trading , it is a revenue loss. In your tax return, you treat it the same way as any other losses from business. You can generally offset the loss against income from other sources, however the non-commercial loss rules may apply. Losses on worthless shares You may be able to claim a capital loss on worthless shares before a company is dissolved . You can do this if a liquidator or administrator declares in writing that you will not receive any further distribution from the company. QC 66048 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).