Government payments and allowances | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Government payments and allowances When to declare taxable and tax-free government payments, pensions and allowances in your tax return. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download What are government payments, pensions and allowances? Australian Government payments, pensions and allowances are income amounts that you receive from a government agency. Commonly these payments are from Services Australia or the Department of Veteran's affairs (DVA). Depending on the payment type you receive, these payments might be either: taxable – meaning you pay tax on the amounts and must declare the income in your tax return tax-free – meaning you don't pay tax on the amounts, but you may need to declare them in your tax return so we can work out your eligibility for tax offsets and other benefits. If you are unsure of the type of payment you receive, contact the government agency to check. If you lodge your tax return online using myTax, we pre-fill most of these payments, pensions and allowances in your tax return. You will need to check the pre-fill information and manually include any amounts that have not pre-filled in your tax return. For instructions on how to complete government payments, pensions and allowances in your tax return, see Lodgment options for preparing your tax return . Taxable pensions, payments and allowances You must include taxable Australian Government pensions, payments and allowances in your tax return. Taxable government payments, pensions and allowances include: age pension carer payment (in some circumstances this payment isn’t taxable. See Tax-free government pensions or benefits) Austudy payment Commonwealth Prac Payment (CPP) – available from 1 July 2025 JobSeeker payment Youth allowance veteran payment invalidity service pension, if you are age-pension age or over disability support pension, if you are age-pension age or over income support supplement parenting payment (partnered) disaster recovery allowance. This is not an exhaustive list, for a full list of Australian Government payments, pensions and allowances, see: Australian Government allowances and payments . Tax-free government pensions or benefits Some Australian Government payments are tax-free but you still need to declare them in your tax return. We use this information to work out if you are eligible for tax offsets and any government benefits or concessions. Tax-free Australian Government pensions or benefits include: carer payment where either: both the carer and the care receiver are under age-pension age the carer is under age-pension age and any of the care receivers has died. disability support pension paid by Centrelink, if you are under age-pension age invalidity service pension, if the veteran is under age-pension age partner service pension where either the partner and the veteran are under the age-pension age and the veteran is receiving an invalidity service pension the partner is under age-pension age, the veteran has died and was receiving an invalidity service pension at the time of death. Lump sum bereavement payments you receive are exempt only up to the tax-free amount. This is not an exhaustive list, for a full list of tax-free Australian Government pensions and benefits, see Tax-free government pensions or benefits . Government payments and stimulus during difficult times During difficult times such as natural disasters, the federal, state or territory governments may provide support payments or grants. If you received a payment because you were impacted by a disaster, find out if the payment is taxable and whether to include it in your tax return in Government disaster recovery payments . QC 72100 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).