Capital gains tax | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Capital gains tax How to calculate capital gains tax (CGT) on your assets, assets that are affected, and the CGT discount. What is capital gains tax? How capital gains tax (CGT) works, and how you report and pay tax on capital gains when you sell assets. List of CGT assets and exemptions Check if your assets are subject to capital gains tax (CGT), exempt, or pre-date CGT. Acquiring CGT assets Establish the date you buy or acquire an asset, your share of ownership and start keeping records. CGT events How and when CGT is triggered, such as when an asset is sold, lost or destroyed. CGT discount Find out if your asset is eligible for the 50% CGT discount. Calculating your CGT How to calculate your capital gains tax (CGT), including how to use capital losses and work out your cost base. Property and capital gains tax How CGT affects real estate, including rental properties, land, improvements and your home. Shares and similar investments Find out what can trigger a CGT event, such as selling shares or receiving certain distributions. Inherited assets and capital gains tax How and when CGT applies if you sell assets you inherited, including properties and shares. Foreign residents and capital gains tax Your tax residency may be different to your residency for other purposes. Relationship breakdown and capital gains tax Find out if you can defer, or 'roll over', CGT on assets that transfer to you in a divorce. Market valuation of assets You must obtain market valuation of an asset when required by tax law. The valuation must be objective and supportable. QC 66013 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).