Meals and snacks | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Meals and snacks The cost of food and drink during normal working hours is private and not deductible, but there are limited exceptions. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download What you can claim You can claim: overtime meal expenses , but only if you buy and eat the meal while you are performing overtime and you receive an overtime meal allowance under an industrial law, award or agreement the cost of meals you incur when you travel and stay away from your home overnight for the purpose of carrying out your employment duties. What you can't claim You can't claim a deduction for the cost of food, drink or snacks you consume during your normal working hours, even if you receive a meal allowance. These are private expenses. Example: buying food at work Scarlett works evenings at the candy bar in a movie theatre. She gets a long break, during which she buys dinner. She also buys some peanuts and water to snack on throughout her shift. Scarlett can't claim a deduction for the cost of snacks or her evening meal. The cost of the food and drink she has bought is private and not connected to her employment activities. End of example Similarly, you can't claim the cost of a meal or snack you buy when you are going between different jobs. Example: meals between jobs Owen has 2 jobs, as a bank teller and a shop assistant at a liquor store. He finishes work at the bank at 5 pm and starts work at the liquor store at 6 pm. Before starting work at his second job, Owen buys an evening meal. Owen can't claim a deduction for his evening meal. The cost of the food and drink is private and not connected to his employment activities. End of example QC 72177 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).