Market valuation of assets | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Market valuation of assets You must obtain market valuation of an asset when required by tax law. The valuation must be objective and supportable. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download About market value Market value is the estimated monetary worth of an asset on the open market at a particular time. It is based on: the most valuable use of the asset (which may be different to how it is currently used) the amount that a willing buyer and seller would agree to in an arm's length transaction. The market value definition for tax purposes may vary for particular provisions of tax law and types of asset. When you need a market valuation Taxpayers may need a market valuation for many purposes, including: individual taxpayers non-arm's length transactions, including transferring property or shares between related parties, for example family members when you start to use your main residence (your home) for rental or business employees receiving shares or options under an employee share scheme small businesses meeting the asset threshold tests for capital gains tax concessions property developers applying the GST margin scheme businesses that consolidate for income tax purposes. What a market valuation report should include At a minimum, valuation reports should contain the following: the purpose of the valuation the scope of the valuation details of the asset being valued the date it was conducted if it is a retrospective valuation assessment the date of inspection (if applicable) records to explain the basis of the market value the value. Depending on what is being valued and when, you may need additional information in your report. Refer your valuer to Market valuation for tax purposes . Getting a market valuation A valuation must be objective and supported with appropriate evidence. Valuations undertaken by professional valuers are more credible than those provided by someone who isn't a professional valuer. When you engage a valuer, you must provide them with clear instructions and accurate information. You need to demonstrate that you have: set out the scope and purpose of the valuation acknowledged the valuer's independence to draw conclusions and write their report recognised that the valuer can refuse to provide an opinion or report if you don't provide the information and explanations they need granted the necessary access to your premises and records provided all necessary help to complete the report stated that any fee isn't dependent on the report's outcome. Instructions to valuers are usually documented in a written request or letter of engagement. Generally, if you engage and properly instruct a professional valuer, you won’t be liable for penalties if we find the professional valuation is deficient. Keep your market valuation report You need to keep a market valuation report or other records that: show the valuation is objective, accurate and supported by evidence include all required information we expect a valuation report to cover. If we later review your tax affairs, you will need these records to support the valuation. Market valuation guide The Market valuation for tax purposes guide is available on our legal database for taxpayers and their advisers (including valuers) who need to value an asset for tax purposes. It explains: the principles and processes for establishing a market value for tax purposes our expectations the most common valuations for tax purposes. QC 66067 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).