Keeping travel expense records | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Keeping travel expense records Keeping receipts of your travel expenses, and a travel diary of your work-related travel activities. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Records you need for travel expenses Unless an exception applies, you must keep records to support your claims for travel expenses. This may be a combination of: written evidence of your expenses , such as receipts travel diary or similar record of your travel activities. You need to keep your travel expense records for 5 years from the date you lodge your tax return. If you don't keep written records of your travel expenses, you can't claim your travel expenses as a deduction. If you receive a travel allowance from your employer, you may be eligible for the record keeping exception . Written evidence of your expenses Written evidence of your expenses is a receipt or other document (paper, digital or electronic) that you get from the supplier of the goods or services. It must include all of the following: name of the supplier amount of the expense (in the currency in which you incur the expense) nature of the goods or services if this is not shown on the document, you can write the missing details on the document yourself. You must do this before you lodge your tax return date you incur the expense if this is not shown on the document, you can use your bank statement, credit card statement or some other reasonable, independent evidence to show when you paid the expense date the receipt or document is created. If you incur the expense in Australia the document must be in English. If you incur the expense in another country the document can be in a language of that country. Travel diary or record of your activity A travel diary is a document in which you record your travel activities. The purpose of a travel diary is to help work out the work-related and private elements of your trip. You can only claim deductions for the work-related part of your expenses. Do you need to keep a travel diary? You don't need to keep a travel diary if you are away for fewer than 6 nights in a row. If you are away for 6 or more nights in a row, you generally need to keep a travel diary. If you receive a travel allowance from your employer, there are some circumstances where you may not need to keep a travel diary , even if you are away for 6 or more nights in a row. Although you don’t need to keep a travel diary if your trip is for less than 6 nights in a row, you may still find it helpful to keep details of your travel. How to keep a travel diary For each activity on your trip, record: where you were what you were doing when you stopped for meals the date, and start and end times, of the activity. Record the activity before it ends or as soon as possible afterwards. The diary must be in English. Example: travel diary Noel is a manager of a tool manufacturing company that has plants in Australia and New Zealand. He travels to New Zealand for 9 days to attend a conference in Auckland and visit the factory in Christchurch. Before returning to Australia, Noel spends a few days visiting friends and sightseeing near Christchurch. As Noel will be staying away from his home for more than 6 nights, he keeps the following diary of his travel. Example travel diary entry Date Activity Mon 7 October 7:10 am flight to Auckland. Arrive 12:15 pm 6:30 pm – 9:30 pm Opening night of conference Tue 8 October 9:30 am – 4:30 pm Conference Wed 9 October 9:30 am – 4:30 pm Conference 5:00 pm – 6:30 pm Teleconference with Australia Thu 10 October 9:30 am – 5:30 pm Conference Fri 11 October 9:00 am flight to Christchurch, arrive 10:25 am 11:30 am – 6:00 pm Work at Christchurch plant Sat 12 October Day off Sun 13 October 8:30 am – 12:30 pm Management planning session Mon 14 October 8:00 am – 6:30 pm Work at Christchurch plant Tue 15 October 8:00 am – 3:00 pm Work at Christchurch Wed 16 October Holiday with friends Thu 17 October Holiday with friends Fri 18 October Holiday with friends 6:05 pm flight to Sydney, arrive 7:25 pm Noel's diary entries show he was travelling for 12 days, 3 of these days are for a private purposes. He can only claim deductions for the work-related part of his travel. He can claim 75% of the cost of his flights (the part of the trip that was work-related). Noel keeps all written evidence and records that relate to his travel for a period of 5 years from when he lodges his tax return. End of example   QC 72131 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).