Records you need to keep | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Records you need to keep Records you need to show a payment or expense, the format to keep your records in, and how long to keep them. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download What is a record? A record is something that provides evidence of the income you’ve earned or the expenses you’ve made. They can be paper or electronic, and include: written evidence from a supplier (like a receipt or invoice) spreadsheets or timesheets (where you enter information) logbooks (for example, to document work-related car use) diary or calendar entries employment contracts or agreements, duty statements or letter from your employer (in some cases). The type of records you need will depend on what they are for. Find out what records you need for: Work-related expenses Other deductible expenses Payments or amounts you receive Investments and assets Work-related expenses Work-related expenses are the expenses you incur while earning your salary and wages. To claim a deduction for a work-related expense, you must: check you're eligible to claim the expense have written evidence, such as a receipt or invoice, that shows the cost of the item or service name of the supplier nature of the expense date you buy or pay for the expense date the written evidence was prepared have a record that shows how the expense relates to earning your income, for example, a note or similar document explaining how you calculated the amount of your claim your work-related versus private use (you can only claim the work-related portion). A bank or credit card statement on its own isn’t written evidence because it isn’t from the supplier and generally doesn’t include all the information required. There are some specific exceptions from keeping records for certain work expenses, see Record keeping exceptions . For information about records you need for work-related expenses, see: Clothing, laundry and dry-cleaning expenses Computers, laptops and software Expenses for a car you own or lease Expenses for a vehicle that isn't yours or isn't a car Home phone and internet expenses Keeping records for depreciating assets Keeping travel expense records Mobile phone, mobile internet and other devices Overtime meal expenses Self-education expenses Working from home expenses - Actual costs method Working from home expenses - Fixed rate method Taxi, ride-share and public transport expenses Tools and equipment to perform your work For a summary of work-related expense records, download Keeping records for work-related expenses (PDF, 331KB) This link will download a file . Other deductible expenses If you claim a deduction for a deductible expense, you must have records. Examples include the cost of managing your tax affairs or gifts and donations you make to a deductible gift recipient. For most expenses you need a receipt or similar document as evidence of your expenses. For information about specific records you need for gifts and donations, see Keeping records of gifts and donations . Record for local government councillors If you received an allowance from a council where you're a councillor, you need to keep written evidence of the work-related and car expenses you incur in carrying out your duties as a councillor. Expenses which allow you to maintain a public profile as local government councillors are deductible. Payments or amounts you receive If you receive income or other payment amounts you need to declare in your tax return, you need records that show the amounts. You may need to provide us a copy of the records if we review a tax return you lodge. For salary, wages, allowances, government payments or pensions and annuities you receive, your records may include: your income statement if your employer reports to us through single touch payroll (STP) your Pay as you go (PAYG) payment summary – individual non-business a signed letter or statement from your payer, that provides the same information as an income statement or payment summary your PAYG payment summary – superannuation income stream. For assessable investment income from interest, divided and distributions from managed funds, your records may include: interest, dividends or distributions statements Standard Distribution Statement (SDS) and Attribution managed investment trust member annual (AMMA) statement, that shows the amount of your distribution the amount of any primary production or non-primary production income any capital gains or losses any foreign income your share of any credits, such as franking credits. Investments and assets If you acquire a capital asset you may make a capital gain or capital loss if you later sell the asset. To ensure you don’t pay more tax than necessary, keep good records from when you buy the asset. This may include income you receive from an investment property or dividends from shares. For information about the records you need for investments and assets, see: Keeping records of shares and units Records for rental properties and holiday homes Keeping records for property – your main residence and inherited dwellings Keeping crypto records The importance of keeping records Australia's tax system relies on self-assessment so we accept that the information you give us is accurate. If we review your tax return and you don't have evidence to support claims for a deduction, your claims can be disallowed (taken off your tax return). Keeping good records helps you and your tax adviser: to provide written evidence of your income and expenses prepare your tax return ensure you're able to claim all your entitlements prove the information you provide in your tax return (in case we ask you) reduce the risk of tax audits and adjustments improve communication with us resolve issues that relate to a dispute of your assessments or adjustments avoid exposure to penalties. Keeping good records reduces the cost of managing your tax affairs. If you use a tax advisor, you can reduce the time they spend sorting and preparing your records. This will give them more time to ensure you claim your entitlements. If you incur expenses that you use partly for private purposes, you must have records that show how you worked out the part of expenses that you incur in earning assessable income. For more information, see PS LA 2005/2 Penalty for failure to keep or retain records. How long to keep your records You must keep your written evidence for 5 years from the date you lodge your tax return. In limited circumstances, there are different time periods for keeping records or record keeping exceptions . In the following situations the period for keeping records is: 5 years from the date of your last claim for decline in value, if you claim a deduction for the decline in value of depreciating assets 5 years after it is certain that no capital gains tax (CGT) event can happen, if you acquire or dispose of a CGT asset for the later of the following periods if you're in dispute with us, either 5 years from the date you lodge your tax return 5 years from the date the dispute is resolved. Format of your records You can keep your records in paper or electronic format, including photos of your written evidence. If you make paper or electronic copies of your records, they must be a true and clear copy of the original record. Your records must be in English where you incur the expense in Australia. However, if you incur the expense in a country outside Australia, the document can be in the language of that country. If we ask you for records to substantiate a claim and your record is not in English, it should be accompanied by a translation certified by an authorised translation service. This includes professional translation services accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters Ltd (NAATI) External Link . You can use any electronic device or app to keep your electronic records. However, we recommend backing up your electronic records regularly. Keeping records with myDeductions Our myDeductions tool in the ATO app is a record-keeping tool you can use to keep track of your records electronically. Using the myDeductions tool makes keeping your records including photos easier. We recognise documents you store digitally, including photos of your receipts as records. Sole traders with simple affairs can also use it to help keep track of their business income and expenses. You can upload your records from the myDeductions tool and pre-fill your tax return in myTax. If you use a registered tax agent, you can also email your records directly to them. The myDeductions tool allows you to keep your records for: all work-related expenses (including car trips) interest and dividend deductions gifts or donations costs of managing tax affairs sole trader expenses and business income other deductions. Media: A quick demonstration of myDeductions https://tv.ato.gov.au/ato-tv/media?v=bd1bdiubgosm84 External Link ( Duration: 1:22) Record keeping exceptions There are also some record keeping exceptions available to make things simpler. Exceptions don’t allow you to claim an automatic deduction. In limited circumstances we may also grant relief from the effects of failing to keep records. In some circumstances you may not need receipts, but you still need to show you spent the money and how you calculate your claim. Specific exceptions are: Total work-related expenses $300 or less Total laundry expenses $150 or less Small expense receipts Hard to get receipts Record keeping exceptions for travel allowance expenses Record keeping exception for overtime meals Total work-related expenses $300 or less If your total claim for work-related expenses is $300 or less, you can claim a deduction without full written evidence (receipts) as long as you can show: you spent the money how you calculated the amount of your claim. For example, the amounts highlighted on a bank statement with a written description of each item, and how they directly related to your work. The $300 deduction limit for work-related expenses does not apply to claims for: car expenses meal allowances award transport payments allowance travel allowance expenses These are claimed separately and have their own record-keeping rules. If your total claim for work-related expenses is more than $300, you must have full written evidence to support all your claims. Total laundry expenses $150 or less If your total claim for work-related laundry expenses is $150 or less (excluding dry-cleaning expenses), you can claim a deduction without full written evidence (such as a receipt). However, you will need to keep a record (like a spreadsheet or note in your phone) that shows you spent the money on laundering work-related clothing and how you work out the amount of your laundry claim. As long as your claim doesn’t exceed $150, it can be worked out by: $1 per load (if you wash only your work clothes in that load) 50 cents per load (if you mix other clothes in with your work clothes). Example: laundry expenses Jelani receives a work uniform from her employer. She washes, dries and irons her uniforms separate to personal items, 2 times per week. Jelani works 48 weeks during the year, meaning she does 96 laundry loads for her work uniform per year. She documents this in the notes app of her phone. Jelani can claim $96 for laundry expenses. Her claim of $96 is worked out as follows: Total number of claimable laundry loads × Reasonable cost per load = Total claim amount 96 × $1 = $96 End of example If your total claim for laundry expenses is more than $150, you must have full written evidence (receipts) to support all of your claims. Note: This $150 limit for laundry is included in the $300 for total work-related expenses. It does not increase the amount of expenses you can claim without receipts to $450. For more information, see Keeping records for clothing, laundry and dry-cleaning . Small expense receipts Small expenses are expenses you incur that are $10 or less. If you're unable to get a receipt from a supplier, you may still be able to claim a deduction for small expenses if you keep a record (such as a diary note or note in your phone). Your total claim for an income year for small expenses must be $200 or less if you record them in this way. Your record must be made as soon as possible after incurring the expense and provide details of the: name or business name of the supplier amount of the expense or cost of the asset nature of the goods or services you buy date you buy the goods or services date the record was made. If the expense is the decline in value of a depreciating asset you must record: a description of the asset the amount of decline in value who made the record the date the record was made. Hard to get receipts If you incur expenses where it is hard to get receipt, you can make a record (such as a diary note or note in your phone) of the expenses instead of getting a document from the supplier. Hard to get receipt expenses are excluded from the $200 limit for small expenses. The record you keep must be made as soon as possible after the expense is incurred and provide details of the: name or business name of the supplier amount of the expense or cost of the asset nature of the goods or services you buy date you buy the goods or services date the record was made. Record keeping relief We may also grant relief from the effects of failing to keep records in limited circumstances. Specific circumstances where relief from the effects of failing to keep records include: Unable to get a receipt from the supplier Reasonable expectation that records weren't required Lost or destroyed records Unable to get a receipt from the supplier We may grant you relief from keeping records, if the nature and quality of your evidence shows you spent the money and are entitled to claim a deduction. Your evidence may include: a bank or credit card statement that shows the amount that was paid when and to who amounts were paid A bank or credit card statement is not sufficient evidence on its own, you also need: other documents that outline the nature of the goods or services a written record in your work diary. If you pay cash to a supplier and have no other documents to support your claim, you will not have sufficient evidence to claim a deduction. Reasonable expectation that records weren't required If you don't have the records you need to claim a deduction, we may grant relief from substantiation (keeping records) if: there is sufficient evidence to indicate that you incurred the expense and it is deductible you can show the only reason you didn't keep records was a genuine belief that you did not need to keep records your belief that you did not have to keep records was reasonable in all the circumstances. Relief will not be granted if you did not keep records because: you don't know how the record keeping provisions operate you have carelessly or recklessly disregarded whether an exception would apply. For example, if you were under the impression that you only had to provide records for work expenses greater than $300, the relief from keeping records for the first $300 of expenses would not be granted. Lost or destroyed records If your records are accidentally lost or destroyed, you may be able to claim a deduction for certain expenses. For example, your records are stolen during a burglary, destroyed in a disaster or due to circumstances of vulnerability such as sudden homelessness, or experiencing family violence. You can claim a deduction, if you can provide a complete copy of the lost or destroyed records – you can treat these records as the original from the time of the loss or destruction. If you're unable to get a complete copy or a substitute document that meets all the original requirements for the record, we may also grant relief from substantiation (keeping records). This may occur where: there is sufficient evidence to indicate that you incurred the expense and it is deductible you can provide evidence that the loss or destruction of your records occurred documents have been lost or destroyed despite your taking reasonable precautions you have tried and get a substitute record that meets all the original requirements for the record, and you can show you made an effort, or there were reasonable grounds to believe your efforts wouldn't be successful, to get a substitute document it was not reasonably possible for you to get a substitute document. We may also be able to help you with Reconstructing your tax records . For more information on the relief from the effects of a failure to substantiate expenses, see TR 97/24 Income tax: relief from the effects of failing to substantiate. Example: Documents not available Kylie's 2025–26 income tax return is being audited, Kylie is asked to provide substantiation for her work-related expenses. Kylie provides the auditor with a copy of an Apprehended Violence Order (AVO) that was recently applied for by Police and lists Kylie as the person-in-need-of-protection (PINOP) and her ex-spouse as the defendant. The AVO outlines a 'grounds of application' which the case officer relies on to demonstrate that a domestic violence incident was reported to Police in February 2026. Kylie also provides a letter from an emergency shelter outlining that she needed to leave home in February 2026 due to domestic violence. Kylie explains she has not been able to return to her former residence since this incident due to ongoing fears for her safety. Kylie requests discretion for her substantiation from July 2025 to February 2026. There is sufficient evidence that: Kylie's expenses were incurred and are deductible, based on bank statements and a letter from her employer outlining her work arrangements. Kylie took reasonable precautions to prevent the loss or destruction of records. Kylie made a genuine effort to obtain substitute records. It was not safe or feasible for Kylie to obtain original documentation. Substantiation requirements are met for the March 2026 to June 2026 period, as original records are available and provided. The auditor allows the discretion for lost or destroyed records. End of example Documents to support and verify your claims Find out what documents you may need to provide us to verify the amounts you claim in your tax return. QC 72206 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).