Investing in bank accounts and income bonds | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Investing in bank accounts and income bonds Check the income you need to declare and tax implications if you invest in bank accounts and income bonds. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Bank accounts Interest from a bank or other financial institution is part of your assessable income for the income year. Even if the funds earning the interest weren't subject to tax, the interest is. For example, if you won some prize money and banked it, you wouldn't usually include the prize money on your tax return, but you would include the interest you earned on it. You can also claim a tax deduction for expenses incurred in earning interest income or income from friendly society income bonds. Banks and other investment bodies report the interest they pay to account holders and investors to us. We match this information with the amounts you report in your tax return to ensure that all income is being declared. If we find a discrepancy, we will adjust your tax return and penalties can apply. Bank accounts held by foreign residents Financial institutions automatically withhold tax from interest earned on accounts held by foreign residents. If you've given the financial institution your overseas address, the tax will be withheld at the rate of 10%. Without your overseas address, tax is withheld at 47%. You don't include this interest as income on your Australian tax return. For more information about tax withheld from unfranked dividends and royalties you earn in Australia, see Interest, unfranked dividends and royalties . Offshore bank accounts Some tax authorities in other countries don't require you to report interest earned overseas, but we do. If you hold bank accounts in other countries, you must report any interest or other income earned from these accounts in your Australian tax return. You may have to pay additional charges if you don't do this. Example: offshore bank account Javed came to Australia as an overseas student. Having completed his degree, he became a permanent resident of Australia under the skilled migration program. He visits his relatives in India every year and has left his Indian bank account open for easy access to funds in India. When preparing his first tax return as a permanent resident of Australia, Javed reads on our website that bank interest from offshore accounts is taxable in Australia. He discloses the interest that has accrued in his account in India over the year. We receive information from the Indian Department of Revenue about interest payments as part of the Automatic Exchange of Information program. Javed’s name appears in the data. The interest amount reported is consistent across the 2 sources. Javed is complying with his tax obligations, so we take no follow-up action. End of example Income bonds Bonuses from income bonds are part of your assessable income for the income year. Income bonds are a type of life insurance policy that only friendly societies issue. They are sometimes marketed as 'bonus bonds' or 'savings bonds'. Unlike other life insurance policies, which pay bonuses on maturity or surrender, an income bond is like a savings account and distributes regular bonuses. For tax purposes, these bonuses are treated in the same way as interest. Tax file number withholding tax If your bank doesn't have your tax file number (TFN), it will withhold tax from your interest at the highest marginal tax rate. You can claim a credit for the amount of tax withheld when you lodge your tax return. You don't need to provide your TFN if: you're under 16 years of age the account is in your name the account earns less than $420 interest each income year. If you're under 18 years old on 30 June of an income year, your interest may be taxed under the special high tax rates for minors . For more information about income on savings accounts for children under 18 years old, see Children's savings accounts . Children's savings accounts If your child is under 18 years old and has a savings account, find out about quoting a TFN and what income to declare. QC 22809 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).