How to lodge your tax return | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search How to lodge your tax return Check what options you have to lodge your tax return yourself or with help from someone else. Lodging your first tax return Find out what you need to do if you are preparing and lodging a tax return for the first time. Lodge your tax return online with myTax Prepare and lodge your own tax return online. It is the quick, safe and secure way to lodge, most process in 2 weeks. Lodge your tax return with a registered tax agent Use a registered tax agent to prepare and lodge your tax return, they are the only people that can charge a fee. Lodge a paper tax return You can use the paper tax return to lodge your tax return by mail, most refunds issue within 50 business days. Lodge your tax return before leaving Australia Find out if you can lodge your tax return early (by paper) if you are leaving Australia permanently. Lodge your tax return from outside Australia Find out how you can lodge if you are outside Australia when your tax return is due. Lodge a prior year tax return Find out how to lodge if you still need to lodge a tax return for a prior year. Lodge a non-lodgment advice Check what you need to do if you don't need to lodge a tax return. Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra. QC 65333 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).