Owning shares | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Owning shares Find out about owning shares, including dividends and deductions you can claim. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download When you own shares When you own shares, there are tax implications from: receiving dividends participating in a dividend reinvestment plan receiving franking credits participating in or receiving a call payment on a bonus share scheme receiving non-assessable payments transactions the company you have invested in undertakes, such as mergers, takeovers and demergers owning shares if you are under 18 years old receiving a retail premium  for rights or entitlements that you didn't take up. Dividends from shares You need to declare all your dividend income in your tax return, even if you use your dividend to purchase more shares – for example, through a dividend reinvestment plan. A dividend is assessable income in the year it was paid or credited to you. Your dividend statement shows the relevant date – often referred to as the payment date or date paid. Reinvesting dividends Most dividends you are paid or credited will be in the form of money, either by cheque or directly deposited into a bank account. However, the company may give you the option of reinvesting your dividends in the form of new shares in the company – this is called a dividend reinvestment scheme. If you take this option, you must pay tax on your reinvested dividends. The amount of the dividend received will form part of the cost base of the shares you receive. Keep a record of your reinvested dividends to help you work out any capital gains or capital losses you make when you dispose of the shares. Deductions when you own shares When you own shares, you may be able to claim a deduction for expenses you incur, including: management fees specialist journals interest on money you borrowed to buy the shares. Shares held in joint names or with another person You can hold shares in joint names. If you hold shares with another person, such as your spouse, it's assumed that ownership of the shares is divided equally. You can own shares in unequal proportions but you must be able to demonstrate this. For example, you can keep a record of the amount each party contributes to the acquisition cost. Assess dividend income and franking credits in the same proportion as the shares are owned. Dividend income deductions Find out what deductions you can claim against your dividend income. Taxing retail premiums If you receive retail premiums as a shareholder, check how the retail premium is taxed. QC 22812 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).