Business, partnership and trust income | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Business, partnership and trust income How to declare income you earn as a sole trader, as a partner in a partnership or from a trust. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Income as an individual running a business If you're an individual running a business (a sole trader), you must declare the income you earn from your business in your individual tax return. The net income you receive from carrying on a business is assessable income. Business income includes cash and other forms of payment for goods or services you supply. If you lodge: online with myTax, you report your business income by selecting you were a sole trader or had business income or losses, partnership or trust distributions (not from a managed fund) business/sole trader income or loss by paper, you will need to complete the business and professional items schedule . You don't need to lodge a separate tax return for your business. If you’re an influencer or content creator, or have a side hustle, you may need to work out if you're in business . As a sole trader, you will still declare the income and deductions you earn from this work. If you are in business as a sole trader, and also earn salary, wages, or other income from employment or commissions as an individual, your total taxable income is: your total assessable business income, plus the total assessable employment income. This total income may affect the amount of repayments for income contingent loans like FEE-help, or offset eligibility and amounts. Media: Declaring income from your side hustle https://share.viostream.com/bi9or7odhqnbt9 External Link ( Duration: 0:58) Income or loss from a partnership A partnership doesn't pay income tax but is required to lodge a partnership tax return each income year. A partnership carrying on a business distributes its net income or loss to each partner. Each partner includes their share of the net income of the partnership in their assessable income. Where a partnership makes a net loss in an income year, each partner may claim a deduction for their share of the partnership's loss. Each partner in the partnership must lodge their individual tax return to declare their share of the partnership's net income or loss. The partner needs to do this whether or not they actually receive their share of the net income or loss. However, a partnership must lodge a partnership tax return to report its: income deductions distribution of net income or net loss to the partners. For capital gains tax (CGT) purposes, each partner owns a proportion of each CGT asset in the partnership. If there is a CGT event (such as selling an asset), the individual partners calculate a capital gain or capital loss on their share of the asset. If you lodge: online with myTax, you report your share of the partnership's income or loss by selecting you were a sole trader or had business income or losses, partnership or trust distributions (not from a managed fund) partnerships by paper, you will need to complete the supplementary tax return . Income from a trust If you're a beneficiary of a trust, you declare trust income to which you're entitled in your individual tax return. You need to do this even if you didn't actually receive your share of the net income from the trust. However, you don't need to declare a trust distribution if family trust distribution tax has already been paid. If you lodge: online with myTax, you report your share of the trust's income by selecting you were a sole trader or had business income or losses, partnership or trust distributions (not from a managed fund) trusts by paper, you will need to complete the supplementary tax return . The trustee must lodge a trust tax return to report for the trust, but the trust itself generally doesn't pay income tax. However, the trustee may be required to pay income tax in some circumstances, such as if it has non-resident beneficiaries . Tax on trust distributions to non-resident beneficiaries Tax on trust distributions to non-resident beneficiaries, including trustee beneficiaries in a chain of trusts. QC 72103 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).