Self-managed super funds | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Self-managed super funds A self-managed super fund (SMSF) is a way of saving for retirement. The members run it for their own benefit. Before you start an SMSF What to consider when deciding if a self-managed super fund (SMSF) is right for you. SMSF regulation and compliance How we regulate SMSFs and auditors, and how you can check your SMSF compliance status and report contraventions. Setting up an SMSF How to set up a self-managed super fund (SMSF) correctly to comply with tax and superannuation laws. SMSF investing SMSF investment requirements you must meet to ensure you comply with superannuation law. SMSF contributions and rollovers How to deal with contributions, deduction notices, rollovers and release authorities. SMSF administration and reporting Trustee obligations include arranging an annual audit, keeping appropriate records and reporting fund's operation. Self-managed super fund education products See our publications and online education modules to navigate the various stages of your SMSF lifecycles. Paying SMSF benefits When and how you can pay an SMSF benefit to a member, the types of benefits and your obligations as SMSF trustee. Winding up a self-managed super fund When to consider if you need to wind up your SMSF and how to wind it up. Help and support for SMSFs SMSF resources, scam awareness, help and support. SMSF newsroom Read the latest updates on tax, super and registry services for self-managed super funds (SMSFs) and approved auditors. SMSF schemes Describes schemes targeting Australians to inappropriately use an SMSF. QC 23300 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).