Private health insurance rebate | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Private health insurance rebate The private health insurance rebate is a government contribution to help with the cost of your private health insurance. Private health insurance rebate eligibility Eligibility for the private health insurance rebate depends on your circumstances, including your policy and income. Claiming the private health insurance rebate How to claim the private health insurance rebate, how to claim for your spouse and if you have prepaid your premium. Lifetime health cover LHC is a loading added to your hospital premium if you didn't have private hospital cover from the year you turn 31. Income thresholds and rates for the private health insurance rebate Find out the private health insurance rebate income thresholds and rebate percentage rates. Your private health insurance statement Your statement gives you information about your private health insurance premiums and private patient hospital cover. Overseas visitors – private health insurance on your tax return Help for overseas visitors to complete the Medicare levy surcharge and private health insurance section on a tax return. QC 49962 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).