Crypto asset investments | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Crypto asset investments How to treat investments in crypto assets (also called crypto or cryptocurrency) for tax purposes in Australia. What are crypto assets? What crypto assets are, how they work and how tax applies to these assets. Transactions – acquiring and disposing of crypto assets Activities that amount to crypto asset transactions and how to treat your crypto asset investments for tax purposes. How to work out and report CGT on crypto How to work out and report capital gains tax (CGT) on transactions involving crypto assets. Crypto chain splits How to treat a new crypto asset you receive because of a chain split. Crypto asset as a personal use asset Work out if your crypto asset is a personal use asset and when a personal use crypto asset is exempt from CGT. Decentralised finance and wrapping crypto Capital gains tax (CGT) treatment of decentralised finance (DeFi) and wrapping crypto tokens. Keeping crypto records Which records you need to keep for crypto assets and crypto transactions and how long to keep them. Crypto assets glossary A glossary of common terms in crypto. QC 69945 Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).