Cost of managing tax affairs | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Cost of managing tax affairs Deductions you can claim for expenses to manage your tax affairs, such as lodging with a registered agent. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download What you can claim You can claim a deduction for expenses you incur in managing your own tax affairs, such as the cost to lodge through a registered agent. Costs you can claim for managing your own tax affairs include: costs associated with preparing and lodging your tax return and activity statements, for example buying tax reference material tax return preparation courses lodging your tax return through a registered tax agent getting tax advice from a recognised tax advisor dealing with us about your tax affairs buying software that allows you to prepare and lodge your tax return (you can only claim a portion of the cost if you also use the software for other purposes) travel costs to get tax advice, for example, the travel costs of attending a meeting with a recognised tax adviser litigation costs, including court and Administrative Review Tribunal (ART) fees (ART replaced the Administrative Appeals Tribunal from 14 October 2024), and solicitor, barrister and other legal costs the cost of a valuation for a deductible gift or donation of property, or for a deduction for entering into a conservation covenant an Interest charge we impose , if it was incurred prior to 1 July 2025 some fees you incur when you pay your tax obligations by card, for example credit and debit card fees for a business tax liability (for example, GST) debit card fees when paying an individual tax liability (as of 1 January 2025, we no longer pass on debit card fees, but you can still claim a deduction where you paid this fee before this date) costs to comply with your legal obligations for another person's (or other entity's) tax affairs the portion of financial advice fee that assists you in managing your tax affairs (for example, advice about salary sacrifice). What you can't claim Costs you can't claim in managing your own tax affairs include: ATO Interest charges - General Interest Charge (GIC) and Shortfall Interest Charge (SIC) incurred on or after 1 July 2025 can't be claimed as a deduction. having someone prepare your tax advice who is not either a tax agent registered with the Tax Practitioners Board a qualified tax relevant provider registered with Australian Securities & Investments Commission (ASIC) financial advice fees that aren't in relation to managing your tax affairs (for example, factual information about a financial product that doesn't involve the application or interpretation of the tax laws to your personal circumstances or household budgeting) your personal tax debt or any interest on a loan you take out to pay your personal tax debt. If you receive a single invoice for preparing your tax returns and the tax returns for associated people (such as a spouse), you need to split the fees you incur. You must also: be able to show how you work out the cost for each keep records as evidence to support the deduction you claim. You generally incur the fees in the income year you pay them. Interest charged by the ATO You can no longer claim a deduction for interest we charge. QC 72191 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).