Employment income | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Employment income Income from working such as wages, allowances, lump sum payments, cash and tips, reportable fringe benefits and super. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Salary and wages The most common type of employment income is salary and wages, whether you have one job or more, and whether you work full time, part time or casual. This income may be cash-in-hand, direct payments into your bank account or payment you receive in another way. Salary and wage payments you need to declare in your tax return include: your normal weekly, fortnightly or monthly pay commissions bonuses, including retention bonuses to remain with your employer money for part-time or casual work parental leave pay payments from an income protection insurance policy a sickness or accident insurance policy a workers compensation scheme pay and allowances for continuous full-time service in the Australian Naval, Army or Air Force Reserve (but you may not have to declare salary and allowances while deployed overseas ) income you receive in connection with a joint space and defence project – unless exempt from Australian income tax foreign employment income – unless exempt from Australian income tax. If you're an employee of an Australian Government agency (and not a member of a disciplined force), include income you earn from delivering Australian official development assistance . Allowances and other work-related income You may receive allowances or other payments in connection with your employment that you need to declare in your tax return. These payments may include: allowances , including travel and overtime meal allowances cash tips, gratuities and payments for your services consultation fees and payments for voluntary services jury attendance fees income for providing personal services outside of employment or in a non-business capacity (for example, income from working in the sharing economy ). Lump sum payments A lump sum payment is a one-time payment from a payer rather than payments throughout the income year. You include lump sum payments as assessable income in your tax return in the income year you receive the amount. Lump sum payments usually occur: when you leave a job, for amounts such as an employment termination payment (ETP) a genuine redundancy payment an approved early retirement scheme payment that exceeds the tax-free limit unused annual leave, long service leave or special leave for amounts a payer owes you from an earlier income year (see, Lump sum payments in arrears ). Reportable fringe benefits and super contributions You need to declare: reportable fringe benefits you receive from your employer (such as, a work car for private purposes, a cheap loan or free private health insurance) reportable super contributions made on your behalf by your employer. You don't have to pay tax on these amounts. We use these amounts to work out whether you're eligible to receive certain government benefits and tax offsets. Employment allowances Types of employment allowances, how and when to treat them as income, and how they affect claiming a deduction. QC 72088 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).