Inherited property and CGT | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Inherited property and CGT Find out if the inherited property is exempt from CGT, and what happens if there is more than one owner. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Work out if your inherited property is exempt If you inherit a property and later sell or otherwise dispose of it, you may be exempt from capital gains tax (CGT). The same exemption applies if you are the trustee of a deceased estate. The inherited property must include a dwelling and you must sell them together. Generally, you can't get a CGT exemption for land or a structure that you sell separately from the dwelling. If you are a foreign resident , or the deceased was a foreign resident, you are generally not entitled to the main residence exemption when you sell the property. Work through the following questions to find out if your inherited property is exempt from CGT. 1. Did the deceased die before CGT started on 20 September 1985? Yes: property is fully exempt (however, any major property improvements or additions you make on or after 20 September 1985 may be subject to CGT) No: go to question 2 2. Did the deceased acquire the property before 20 September 1985? Yes: go to question 6 No: go to question 3 3. Did you inherit the property after 20 August 1996? Yes: go to question 5 No: go to question 4 4. From the time the deceased acquired the property until their death, was the property their main residence and not used to produce income? Yes: go to question 7 No: property isn't fully exempt. You may qualify for a partial exemption 5. Just before the deceased died, was the property their main residence and not used to produce income? Yes: go to question 6 No: property isn't fully exempt. You may qualify for a partial exemption 6. Did you dispose of the property within 2 years? See Disposal within 2 years Yes: property is fully exempt No: go to question 7 7. From the time the deceased died, was the property used only as the main residence of at least one of the following people: the spouse of the deceased immediately before their death (but not a spouse who was permanently separated from the deceased) a person who has a right to occupy the property under the deceased's will you, as a beneficiary, if you dispose of the property as a beneficiary? See Main residence while you own property . Yes: property is fully exempt No: property isn't fully exempt (you may qualify for a partial exemption ) Disposal within 2 years You meet this requirement if you dispose of the property under a contract that settles within 2 years of the deceased's death. It doesn't matter if you used the property as your main residence or to produce income during the 2-year period. You can extend the 2-year period if disposal of the property is delayed by exceptional circumstances outside your control. Example: disposal within 2 years Rodrigo was the sole occupant of a flat he bought in April 1992. He didn't live in or own another property. Rodrigo died in January 2025 and left the flat to his son, Petro. Petro rented out the flat and then sold it 15 months after his father died. Petro is entitled to a full exemption from CGT as he acquired the flat after 20 August 1996 and disposed of it within 2 years of his father's death. End of example Main residence while you own property You meet this requirement if, from the deceased's death until you dispose of the property, both of the following are true: the property isn't used to produce income the property is the main residence of at least one of the following people   the person who was the spouse of the deceased immediately before the deceased's death (but not a spouse who was permanently separated from the deceased) a person who has a right to occupy the property under the deceased's will you, as a beneficiary, if you dispose of the property as a beneficiary. The property can continue to be the main residence of one of the above people if they choose to treat it as their main residence (even if they have stopped living in it). A property is considered to be your main residence from the time you acquire it if you move in as soon as practicable after that time. Example: main residence while you own property Peter bought a house prior to 20 September 1985. He died in February 1993 and the house passed to his beneficiary, Bob. Under Peter’s will, Patti had a right to occupy the house. However, Patti couldn't move in until probate and administration of the estate was granted. During this period the house was vacant. Probate and administration of the estate was granted in September 1993 and Patti moved in immediately. Patti used the house as her main residence until Bob disposed of it in 2025. Patti didn't own any other property from the date of Peter’s death. As Patti moved into the house when it was first practicable to do so, it is treated as Patti’s main residence from the time of Peter’s death until Bob sold it. Bob is entitled to a full main residence exemption. End of example If your property is not fully exempt If your property isn't, or is only partially exempt from CGT, to work out your capital gain, you need to know its cost base . If your property is partially exempt, you need to work out the proportion of your property that is exempt . Foreign residents and inherited property When you inherit Australian residential property: if the former owner of the property was a foreign resident for more than 6 years at the time of their death, you can't claim the main residence exemption for the period they owned it if you have been a foreign resident for more than 6 years when you sell or dispose of the property, you can't claim the main residence exemption for the period you owned it if you have been a foreign resident for 6 years or less when you sell or dispose of the property, to claim the main residence exemption you must satisfy the life events test . If you are not entitled to the main residence exemption, CGT will apply when you sell or dispose of the property. Example: inherit property from a foreign resident Michael bought an Australian residential property in 2013 and lived in it as his main residence. On 1 July 2016, Michael moved to New York and rented out his Australian property. On 16 August 2025, Michael passed away. Anita, an Australian resident, inherited the property from Michael. Anita didn't live in the property and sold it within 2 years. At the time of his death, Michael had been a foreign resident for more than 6 years. This means Michael wasn't eligible for the main residence exemption at the time of his death, despite having lived in the property from 2013 to 2016. Anita can't claim the main residence exemption because Michael wasn't entitled to it. She must declare the capital gain in her tax return and pay CGT. End of example For more information, go to our publication ordering service and download our fact sheet Capital gains tax on inherited property (NAT 75356, PDF, 239KB) External Link . QC 66054 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).