List of CGT assets and exemptions | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search List of CGT assets and exemptions Check if your assets are subject to capital gains tax (CGT), exempt, or pre-date CGT. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Assets subject to CGT Under CGT rules, certain assets may be subject to tax when a CGT event occurs. Real estate Most property is subject to CGT. This includes: vacant land business premises rental properties holiday houses hobby farms. If you acquired property before 20 September 1985, any property improvements or additions you make after that date may be subject to CGT. Your main residence is generally exempt from CGT. Shares and units CGT applies to shares, units and similar investments when a 'CGT event' happens. This includes when you sell them or receive a distribution (other than a dividend) from a managed fund. Exchange traded funds When you sell or dispose of exchange traded funds (ETFs) the units are subject to CGT. This includes any units received from a distribution reinvestment plan (DRP). You need to include them as part of the cost base when you calculate your capital gain or loss . Managed investment trusts Distributions from managed investment trusts (MIT) can include capital gains and non-assessable payments, which are relevant for CGT purposes. The trustee should advise you if any CGT discounts apply. Crypto assets You need to work out and report CGT when you dispose of crypto asset investments. If your crypto is a personal use asset , capital gains or losses from disposing of it may be exempt from CGT. Crypto is a personal use asset if it is kept or used mainly to purchase items for personal use or consumption. Personal use assets A capital gain on a personal use asset is subject to CGT if it cost you more than $10,000 to acquire the asset. Capital losses on personal use assets are ignored. This means you can't use a capital loss on a personal use asset to reduce capital gains on other assets (including other personal use assets). Personal use assets are CGT assets that you keep for your personal use or enjoyment. They include: boats furniture electrical goods household items an option or right to acquire a personal use asset a debt resulting from     a CGT event involving a CGT asset kept for your personal use making a private loan to a family member or friend. The following are not classed as personal use assets: collectables – these may be subject to CGT your main residence, which is generally exempt from CGT cars, which are exempt from CGT. If you dispose of personal use assets individually that would usually be sold as a set, you get the exemption only if you acquired the set for $10,000 or less. Collectables A collectable is subject to CGT unless: you acquired the collectable for $500 or less you acquired a share in the collectable for $500 or less before 16 December 1995 you acquired a share in the collectable when the collectable had a market value of $500 or less. Collectables include: artwork jewellery antiques coins or medallions rare folios, manuscripts or books postage stamps or first day covers. If you make a capital loss on a collectable you can only deduct it against capital gains from collectables, not from other capital gains. If you dispose of collectables individually, that would usually be disposed of as a set, they are exempt only if you acquired the set for $500 or less after 16 December 1995. Intangible assets Intangible assets may be subject to CGT. They include: leases goodwill licences contractual rights. A number of CGT events , other than disposal, can happen to these assets. For example, granting a lease is a CGT event. Foreign currency Foreign currency is subject to CGT. You make a capital gain or loss on fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rate. Foreign currency is subject to foreign exchange gains and losses . A capital gain or loss arises from the acquisition or disposal of foreign currency when there is a fluctuation in the exchange rate. This applies to foreign currency held as cash and CGT assets denominated in a foreign currency (such as an overseas rental property). Assets exempt from CGT Some assets are specifically excluded from capital gains tax, including those outlined below. Assets acquired before 20 September 1985 Assets you acquired before 20 September 1985 are exempt from CGT. You declare the sale or disposal of pre-CGT assets in your tax return. At the CGT exemptions and rollovers question, select Capital gains disregarded as a result of the sale of a pre-CGT asset . Your main residence – home Your main residence (your home) is exempt from CGT. However, CGT may apply if: you rent out part of it you use it for business it is on more than 2 hectares of land you are a foreign resident and you don't satisfy the requirements of the life events test at the time the 'CGT event' happens. For a summary fact sheet with common scenarios, go to the ATO Publication Ordering Service to download Capital gains tax and the main residence exemption (PDF, 301KB) External Link (NAT 75488). Granny flat arrangements CGT doesn't apply when an eligible granny flat arrangement is created, varied or terminated. Cars and motorcycles Your car or motorcycle is exempt from CGT. A car is defined as a motor vehicle that carries a load of less than 1 tonne and fewer than 9 passengers. Depreciating assets CGT doesn't apply to depreciating assets used solely for taxable purposes. This includes: business equipment items in a rental property. Gains or losses ( balancing adjustments ) made on these assets are treated as assessable income or claimed as deductions. However, if you have used a depreciating asset for private purposes, CGT may apply. Specific exemptions such as awards and payouts The following are exempt from CGT: a decoration awarded for valour or brave conduct (unless you paid or exchanged property for it) assets used solely to produce exempt income or some types of non-assessable, non-exempt income compensation or damages received for any   wrong or injury you suffered at work wrong, injury or illness you or your relatives suffered winnings or losses from gambling, a game or a competition with prizes reimbursement payment of your expenses under the following     Unlawful Termination Assistance Scheme Alternative Dispute Resolution Assistance Scheme M4/M5 Cashback Scheme a scheme established under legislation by an Australian Government agency, a local government body or a foreign government agency (except a payment for the loss, destruction or transfer of an asset) the transfer of a super interest in one small super fund (a complying fund that has no more than 6 members) to another because of a relationship breakdown between spouses or former spouses rights created or ended in a superannuation agreement (as defined in the Family Law Act 1975 ) a CGT event happening to the segregated current pension asset of a complying super fund some payouts under a general insurance policy, life insurance policy or annuity instrument, such as payments from the maturity of a life insurance policy a payment for surrender of an insurance policy where you are the original beneficial owner of the policy shares in a pooled development fund shares of certain profits, gains or losses arising from disposal of investments by certain venture capital and early stage venture capital limited partnership entities a financial arrangement where gains and losses are calculated under the taxation of financial arrangements (TOFA) rules gifts made through a will to a deductible gift recipient beneficiary. Norfolk Island residents CGT doesn't apply to an asset if both the following are true: you were a resident of Norfolk Island before 24 October 2015 you acquired the asset on Norfolk Island before 24 October 2015. All other assets are subject to the normal CGT rules. This includes assets acquired on Norfolk Island by people who weren't residents of Norfolk Island. CGT for Norfolk Island residents If you have an asset on … and you acquired the asset … then … Norfolk Island and you were a resident of Norfolk Island on 23 October 2015 on or before 23 October 2015 CGT doesn’t apply on or after 24 October 2015 normal CGT rules apply Norfolk Island and you weren't a resident of Norfolk Island on 23 October 2015 on or before 23 October 2015 normal CGT rules apply on or after 24 October 2015 normal CGT rules apply the Australian mainland (or anywhere worldwide) on or before 19 September 1985 CGT doesn’t apply on or after 20 September 1985 normal CGT rules apply How to claim a CGT exemption If you are eligible for an exemption for your CGT event you can claim this in your tax return. For instructions, see: myTax 2026 CGT events and applying an exemption or rollover 18 Capital gains 2026 – Completing your supplementary tax return (paper). QC 66014 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).