Superannuation pensions and annuities | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Superannuation pensions and annuities Find out about declaring income in your tax return from superannuation pensions or annuities. Last updated 8 June 2026 Print or Download Super pensions A super pension is a series of regular payments made as a super income stream. This doesn't include government payments such as the age pension. You may receive these payments: from an Australian super fund, life assurance company or retirement savings account (RSA) provider from a fund established for the benefit of Commonwealth, state or territory employees and their dependants, such as the Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme the Public Sector Superannuation Scheme as a result of another person's death (death benefit income stream). Depending on your age and the type of income stream you receive, you may need to declare different items in your tax return. This includes: a taxed element – the part of your benefit on which tax has already been paid in the fund an untaxed element – the part of your benefit that is still taxable because tax has not been paid in the fund a tax-free component – the part of your benefit that is tax-free. Your PAYG payment summary – superannuation income stream from your super fund will show the amount you need to declare in your tax return. We pre-fill the amounts from your payment summary when you prepare and lodge you tax return online. You may be entitled to an Australian super income stream tax offset . Your PAYG payment summary – superannuation income stream may show the amount of tax offset you can receive on your taxed element. To work out how your super pension will be taxed, you need to know how tax applies to your super . If you are receiving an income stream, you should check with your superannuation fund to work out if it is a capped defined benefit income stream . Annuities An annuity is usually a series of regular payments made to you by a life insurance company or friendly society in return for a lump sum payment. Most annuities have both taxable and tax-free components. Your assessable income will include your taxable annuity payments when you receive the payment. This includes annuities you receive as a reversionary beneficiary. A reversionary beneficiary is the person a super fund member nominates to automatically receive an income stream on the death of a member. Your PAYG payment summary – individual non-business will show the annuity amounts you need to declare in your tax return. QC 72102 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).