CGT listed investment companies concession | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search CGT listed investment companies concession Find out if you're entitled to a tax deduction from a listed investment company that includes a LIC capital gain amount. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download Listed investment company dividend If a listed investment company (LIC) pays a dividend that includes a LIC capital gain amount, a shareholder who is an Australian resident at the time will be entitled to an income tax deduction. A LIC paying a dividend will advise its shareholders how much of the dividend is attributable to a LIC capital gain (the attributable part). Individual taxpayer An individual can deduct 50% of the attributable part advised by the LIC. Example: resident individual Ben, an Australian resident, is a shareholder in XYZ Ltd, a LIC. On 21 February 2026, Ben received a fully franked dividend from XYZ Ltd of $70, with an eligible capital gain amount (attributable part) of $50. Ben includes the following amounts in his 2025–26 tax return at the following questions: Dividends – Franked amount: $70. Dividends – Franking credit: $30. Dividend deductions: $25 (50% deduction for LIC capital gain). Note: Ben will be entitled to a franking tax offset equal to his franking credit if he satisfies the holding period rule . End of example Complying superannuation entity or life insurance company A complying superannuation entity or life insurance company can deduct 33.33% of the attributable part advised by the LIC. Trust or partnership A trust or partnership can deduct 50% of the attributable part advised by the LIC. Beneficiary of a trust or partner in partnership If a shareholder in a LIC is a trust or partnership, a non-individual beneficiary of the trust or a non-individual partner in the partnership has no share of the attributable part. To allow for this, the beneficiary or partner (other than an individual) includes an amount in their assessable income in the income year in which a LIC capital gain dividend is paid if the trust or partnership is allowed a deduction and their income is reduced by an amount because of that deduction. The amount included in the beneficiary or partner's assessable income is equivalent to that part of the deduction that reflects their share of the net income of the trust or partnership (the reduction amount). A beneficiary or partner that is a complying superannuation entity or life insurance company trust must include in their assessable income one-third of that part of a deduction allowed to the trust, company or partnership that is reflected in the beneficiary or partner's share of the net income. Example: beneficiary of a trust or partner in partnership The Robbie Partnership received from a LIC a $210 fully franked dividend that included an attributable part of $180. The partnership has 3 equal partners – Joe Robbie, Robbie Limited, and the Robbie Superannuation Fund (a complying superannuation entity). The partnership claimed a deduction of $90 for the attributable part in working out its net income of $12,000 (including the $210 dividend). Each partner's share of the net income is $4,000 and their reduction amount is $30 (one-third of $90). Each partner includes $4,000 in their assessable income. The partners must also include the following additional amounts in their assessable income: Joe Robbie, $0 (Joe is an individual partner in the partnership) Robbie Limited, $30 (the reduction amount) Robbie Superannuation Fund, $10 (one-third of the reduction amount). End of example QC 52236 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).