Dividend reinvestment plans | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Dividend reinvestment plans How tax applies to your dividend if you use it to buy more shares from the same company. Last updated 22 June 2026 Print or Download A company in which you hold shares may offer you the option of reinvesting your dividends to acquire more shares, instead of it being paid or credited to you. If you reinvest your dividend, for tax purposes you treat the transaction as though you had received the dividend payment and then used it to buy more shares. This means: you must declare the dividend as income in your tax return the additional shares are subject to capital gains tax (CGT) the acquisition cost of the additional shares is the amount of the dividends used to acquire them. Example: dividend reinvestment plans Natalie owns 1,440 shares in a company. In November 2025, the company declared a dividend of 25 cents per share. Natalie was offered the choice of: taking the dividend as a cash payment of $360 (1,440 × 25 cents) reinvesting the dividend to acquire 45 more shares at $8 per share ($360 ÷ $8). Natalie decided to participate in the dividend reinvestment plan and received 45 new shares on 20 December 2025. Natalie must treat the transaction as though she received the dividend in cash and used it to buy more shares. This means: she must declare the $360 dividend as assessable dividend income in her 2025–26 tax return for CGT purposes, she acquired the 45 new shares for $360 on 20 December 2025. End of example QC 66050 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).