Schedule 12 – Tax table for superannuation lump sums | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Schedule 12 – Tax table for superannuation lump sums Work out the tax to withhold from super lump sum payments made to an individual. Published 17 June 2026 Print or Download Using this schedule This schedule applies to payments made from 1 July 2026. This withholding schedule is made by the Commissioner of Taxation in accordance with sections 15-25 and 15-30 of Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (TAA). It applies to withholding payments covered by paragraph 12-85(a) of Schedule 1 to the TAA. Use this schedule if you make a super lump sum payment to an individual. This schedule also provides information on the withholding requirements when an untaxed element of super interest is rolled over. Super lump sums A super lump sum payment includes a: lump sum member benefit paid to an individual where a condition of release has been satisfied – for example, retirement, terminal medical condition, severe financial hardship, or compassionate grounds lump sum death benefit paid to an individual following the death of the member or account holder commutation of a super income stream (part or all of a super income stream is exchanged for a lump sum). A super lump sum may be paid from a super fund, approved deposit fund (ADF) or a retirement savings account (RSA). Components of a super lump sum Before you can work out the withholding amount, you must calculate the components of the super lump sum. A super lump sum may have the following 2 components: tax-free component taxable component which can include an element taxed in the fund (taxed element) untaxed in the fund (untaxed element). Withholding is calculated on the taxable component only. Do not withhold from the tax-free component. Working out the withholding amount To work out the withholding amount for your payee, apply the applicable rate set out in  Table A . You must calculate the amount if your payee: is an Australian resident receives a taxable component of a super lump sum has provided you with their tax file number (TFN). If the payment is to be made to a foreign resident, you will need to check if there is a tax treaty with their country of residence. The full list of our tax treaties is maintained by Treasury and can be found in the Australian Tax Treaties External Link table. If, because of the treaty, the super lump sum is assessable only in the other country, then no withholding is required. If a foreign resident's super lump sum is assessable in Australia, you are required to withhold from the payment. However, you must adjust the withholding rates set out in Table A to exclude the Medicare levy of 2%. Different withholding rates apply to temporary residents who request a departing Australia superannuation payment. For more information, see: Australian Tax Treaties External Link Departing Australia superannuation payment . Payments not subject to PAYG withholding The following super lump sums are not subject to PAYG withholding: a payment to a person who is suffering from a terminal medical condition a payment to a dependant after the death of the member or account holder a payment to a trustee of a deceased estate after the death of the member. When a TFN has not been provided Different withholding rates apply where the payee of the super lump sum has not provided you with their TFN before the payment is made. Paid to an Australian resident Under 60 years old taxable component (taxed element and untaxed element) withhold 47% (ignoring cents) 60 years old or over   taxable component taxed element – no amount is required to be withheld untaxed element – withhold 47% (ignoring any cents). Paid to a foreign resident Check if there is a tax treaty with the payee's country of residence. If the super lump sum is assessable in the other country, no withholding is required. If the super lump sum is assessable in Australia, use the following withholding rates: Under 60 years old taxable component (taxed element and untaxed element) withhold 45% (ignoring any cents) 60 years old or over   taxable component taxed element – no amount is required to be withheld untaxed element – withhold 45% (ignoring any cents). Do not: allow for any tax offsets or Medicare levy adjustments withhold any amount for study and training support loans. For more information, see Tax treaties . Rollovers If the person entitled to receive the super lump sum asks you to roll over their benefit, you are generally not required to withhold from any of the rolled-over amount. If the rollover benefit consists of a taxable component – untaxed element that exceeds the untaxed plan cap you are required to withhold at the following rates: amount of the untaxed element up to the untaxed plan cap – no amount required to be withheld amount of the untaxed element above the untaxed plan cap – withhold 47%. A super lump sum death benefit cannot be rolled over – whether paid to dependants or non-dependants. Example: rollover contains an untaxed element Tom asks his fund to roll over his super interest of $1.967 million which consists wholly of a taxable component – untaxed element. The untaxed plan cap amount for 2026–27 is $1.935 million. These are the amounts required to be withheld: up to the untaxed plan cap = $1,935,000 (no withholding required) above the untaxed plan cap $32,000 ($1,967,000 - $1,935,000) from $32,000 = $15,040 ($32,000 × 47%). The net rollover of $1,951,960 ($1,967,000 - $15,040) is required to be reported to the receiving fund within 3 days to meet the SuperStream data and payments standard. The fund is also required to provide a statement to the member within 30 days of the rollover. End of example For more information, see: SuperStream Untaxed plan cap . Withholding rates for super lump sums Table A: Withholding rates for super lump sums Type of payment and tax component Age of payee at the date the payment is received Amount subject to PAYG withholding Rate of withholding (includes Medicare levy) Member benefit – taxed element of the taxable component Under preservation age Whole amount 22% Member benefit – taxed element of the taxable component 60 years and above Whole amount Nil Member benefit – untaxed element of the taxable component Under preservation age Amount up to untaxed plan cap 32% Member benefit – untaxed element of the taxable component Under preservation age Amount above untaxed plan cap 47% Member benefit – untaxed element of the taxable component 60 years and above Amount up to untaxed plan cap 17% Member benefit – untaxed element of the taxable component 60 years and above Amount above untaxed plan cap 47% Member benefit – total of preserved benefits is less than $200 Any age Nil – amount is non-assessable, non-exempt income n/a Member benefit – terminal medical condition payment Any age Nil – amount is non-assessable, non-exempt income n/a Death benefit paid to a dependant – taxed and untaxed elements of the taxable component Any age Nil – amount is non-assessable, non-exempt income n/a Death benefit paid to a non-dependant – taxed element of the taxable component Any age Whole amount 17% Death benefit paid to a non-dependant – untaxed element of the taxable component Any age Whole amount 32% Death benefit paid to the trustee of the deceased estate Any age None Nil Rounding of withholding amounts Withholding amounts calculated by applying this schedule are rounded to the nearest dollar. Results ending in 50 cents are rounded up to the next dollar. If a TFN is not provided, ignore cents when calculating withholding amounts. Additional information Untaxed plan cap For the 2026-27 income year, the untaxed plan cap is $1,935,000 and is indexed annually. For other years, see  Untaxed plan cap amount . Lump sum less than $200 There is no withholding required from the whole amount if it is paid by a regulated super fund, complying ADF or RSA provider as a super lump sum and it is the payee’s entire benefit. Terminal medical condition A terminal medical condition exists if: 2 registered medical practitioners have certified, jointly or separately, that the member suffers from an illness, or has incurred an injury, that is likely to result in the member's death within 24 months of the date of certification at least one of the registered medical practitioners is a specialist practicing in an area related to the member's illness or injury the certification period has not ended for each of the certificates. The certification period is 24 months from the date of certification. Death benefit dependant A death benefit dependant for taxation purposes includes: spouse of the deceased child of the deceased under 18 years old a person who had an interdependency relationship with the deceased a person who was a dependant of the deceased just before the latter died any individual who is paid a lump sum death benefit if the deceased died in the line of duty as a member of the defence force, a member of the Australian Federal Police or the police force of a state or territory, or a protective service officer (as defined in the Australian Federal Police Act 1979 ). Spouse of the deceased A spouse of the deceased includes another person who: was in a relationship with the deceased that was registered under a law of a prescribed state or territory lived with the deceased on a genuine domestic basis in a relationship as a couple, although not legally married. Child of the deceased A child of the deceased includes: an adopted child, stepchild or ex-nuptial child a child of the deceased's spouse a child of the deceased within the meaning defined in the Family Law Act 1975 (for example, somebody who is considered to be a child of a person under a state or territory court order giving effect to a surrogacy agreement). Interdependency relationship An interdependency relationship includes: a close personal relationship between two people who live together, where one or both provides for the financial and domestic support and personal care of the other a close personal relationship between two people who live together but do not satisfy one or more of the requirements mentioned in the previous dot point due to either or both of them suffering from a physical, intellectual or psychiatric disability. For further information on interdependency relationships and before accepting that a person is financially dependent, refer to interdependency relationship .   Example: super lump sum made by a super provider from an untaxed element. Chloe is 62 years old and a member of AAFund super fund. She has decided to retire and take some of her super as a lump sum. As Chloe is over 60 years old, she is over the preservation age. According to her entitlements, Chloe will receive a super lump sum of $300,000 from AAFund. The super lump sum has a tax-free component of $30,000 and a taxable component of $270,000. Chloe is a resident for tax purposes and has previously provided her TFN to AAFund. AAFund does not withhold from the tax-free component of $30,000 but is required to withhold an amount from the taxable component of $270,000. The taxable component of the super lump sum paid by AAFund comprises of a taxed element of $190,000 and untaxed element of $80,000. Amount to withhold from super lump sum payment of $300,000 is calculated as follows: Amount of the untaxed plan cap = $1,935,000 (2026–27 income year cap amount) Super lump sum taxable component = $270,000 ($300,000 − tax free component of $30,000) Untaxed element of taxable component = $80,000 ($270,000 - taxed element of $190,000) As Chloe is over 60 and the untaxed element of taxable component of $80,000 is below the untaxed plan cap of $1,935,000, the withholding rate is 17%. Amount to withhold from untaxed element of taxable component = $13,600 (17% of $80,000) Note: The untaxed plan cap is indexed annually. End of example Preservation age The withholding amount varies depending on whether the payee has reached their preservation age when the payment is made. Preservation age is determined using your payee’s date of birth. For example, if a member was born on 1 October 1964, they reach their preservation age of 60 on 1 October 2024. The table below outlines the transitional period where the preservation age increased progressively from 55 to 60. As the transitional period has been completed, for the 2024–25 and future income years the preservation age is 60 for all payees born after 30 June 1964. For those payees born before that date, they have already reached their preservation age. Preservation age Date of birth Preservation age Before 1/7/1960 55 1/7/1960–30/6/1961 56 1/7/1961–30/6/1962 57 1/7/1962–30/6/1963 58 1/7/1963–30/6/1964 59 After 30/6/1964 60 Payment summaries You must provide a PAYG payment summary – superannuation lump sum to the recipient of the super lump sum within 14 days of payment. Payment summaries can also be printed using software that conforms to ATO reporting specifications. For reporting specifications, see Software developers External Link . PAYG withholding publications For all PAYG withholding tax tables and other PAYG withholding publications see: Tax tables PAYG withholding . QC 107130 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).