Tax tables | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Tax tables Use these quick links to find the pay as you go (PAYG) withholding tax tables. Last updated 17 June 2026 Print or Download About tax tables We produce a range of tax tables to help you work out how much to withhold from payments you make to your employees or other payees. A tax withheld calculator  that calculates the correct amount of tax to withhold is available. Tax tables with an asterisk (‘*’) have downloadable look-up tables available in portable document format (PDF). To get a copy of the PDF, select the tax table you need and go to the heading 'Using this table'. Tax tables for previous years are also available. Important Information – July 2026 updates The tax cuts made by the Treasury Laws Amendment (More Cost of Living Relief) Act   2025 (the Act) will apply to the 2026–27 income year resulting in updates to all 15 withholding schedules and 12 tax tables from 1 July 2026. Specifically, the Act amends the Income Tax Rates Act 1986 , which modified income tax rates for individuals for the 2026–27 income year. The Act also amends the Medicare Levy Act 1986 and the A New Tax System (Medicare Levy Surcharge – Fringe Benefits) Act 1999 which increased Medicare levy low-income thresholds. Additionally, updates have been made due to annual indexing of the repayment income thresholds for study and training support loans and other rates and thresholds. Finally, minor changes for formatting, style and clarity of expression have been made where relevant. These updates also include up-to-date examples, cap or payment limit amounts. Tax tables that were updated and apply from 1 July 2026 Regular payments * Weekly tax table (NAT 1005) * Fortnightly tax table (NAT 1006) * Monthly tax table (NAT 1007) * Tax table for daily and casual workers (NAT 1024) Statement of formulas * Schedule 1 – Statement of formulas for calculating amounts to be withheld (NAT 1004) Medicare levy * Weekly tax table with no and half Medicare levy (NAT 1008) * Fortnightly tax table with no and half Medicare levy (NAT 74228) * Medicare levy adjustment weekly tax table (NAT 1010) * Medicare levy adjustment fortnightly tax table (NAT 1011) * Medicare levy adjustment monthly tax table (NAT 1012) Superannuation payments Schedule 12 – Tax table for superannuation lump sums (NAT 70981) Schedule 13 – Tax table for superannuation income streams (NAT 70982) Note: For current year super cap amounts, refer to Key super rates and thresholds . Payee or industry specific tax tables * Schedule 2 – Tax table for individuals employed in the horticultural or shearing industry (NAT 1013) Schedule 3 – Tax table for actors, variety artists and other entertainers (NAT 1023) Schedule 9 – Tax table for seniors and pensioners (NAT 4466) Schedule 15 – Tax table for working holiday makers (NAT 75531) Withholding rates for: individuals employed under the Pacific Australia Labour Mobility scheme, go to Employers of Pacific Australia Labour Mobility (PALM) scheme workers individuals employed under previous labour mobility programs, go to Seasonal Worker Programme (SWP) and Pacific Labour Scheme (PLS) . Types of payment specific tax tables Schedule 5 – Tax table for back payments commissions bonuses and similar payments (NAT 3348) Schedule 6 – Tax table for annuities (NAT 3350) Schedule 7 – Tax table for unused leave payments on termination of employment (NAT 3351) Schedule 11 – Tax table for employment termination payments (NAT 70980) Note: For current year ETP cap amounts, genuine redundancy and early retirement scheme payment limits, refer to Key super rates and thresholds . Study and training support loans * Schedule 8 – Statement of formulas for calculating study and training support loans components (NAT 3539) Sample data for Schedule 8 – Statement of formulas for calculating study and training support loans components (NAT 3539, XLSX 39KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file * Study and training support loans weekly tax table (NAT 2173) * Study and training support loans fortnightly tax table (NAT 2185) * Study and training support loans monthly tax table (NAT 2186) Other tax tables Schedule 4 – Tax table for return to work payments (NAT 3347) Schedule 10 – Tax table for payments made under voluntary agreements (NAT 3352) Schedule 14 – Tax table for additional amounts to withhold as a result of an agreement to increase withholding (NAT 5441) More information For more information, see: Key super rates and thresholds Tax withheld calculators Tax file number and withholding declarations – Employee is under 18 years old Payments with special rules Single Touch Payroll PAYG payment summaries: forms and guidelines QC 16945 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).