Schedule 3 – Tax table for actors, variety artists and other entertainers | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Schedule 3 – Tax table for actors, variety artists and other entertainers Work out the amount of tax to withhold from payments made to employees who are actors, variety artists or other entertainers. Published 17 June 2026 Print or Download Using this schedule This schedule applies to payments made from 1 July 2026. This withholding schedule is made by the Commissioner of Taxation in accordance with sections 15–25 and 15–30 of Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (TAA). It applies to withholding payments covered by section 12-35 of Schedule 1 to the TAA. Use this schedule if you make payments to employees who are actors, variety artists or other entertainers who receive payments for their performances. Do not use this schedule if you make payments to employees, or other individuals engaged under a contract, to perform in a promotional activity that is any one of the following: conducted in the presence of an audience intended to be communicated to an audience by print or electronic media for a film or tape for a television or radio broadcast. For these types of payments, the Commissioner has varied the rate of withholding to 20% of the payment. For more information, refer to Performing artists contracted to perform promotional activity . If you employ individuals under a working holiday makers visa, you must use Schedule 15 – Tax table for working holiday makers  for all payments made to them, including lump sum payments. For all other employees who are paid on a regular basis, use the applicable tax table: Weekly tax table Fortnightly tax table Monthly tax table . Do not use this schedule for payments made to foreign residents engaged as contractors. These payments are subject to foreign resident withholding. For more information, refer to Foreign resident entertainment, sports, construction and gaming junket activities . When using this schedule, do NOT withhold an amount for study and training support loans. When using this schedule, do NOT adjust the withholding amount for an employee who is claiming a Medicare levy exemption or reduction. Medicare levy variations do not apply to this schedule. You can also: use the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file  to quickly work out the amount to withhold download a printable version of the Tax table for actors, variety artists and other entertainers (NAT 1023, PDF 498KB) This link will download a file . Working out the withholding amount The withholding lookup tool and tables in this schedule are only applicable to those who have 3 performances per week and have claimed the tax-free threshold. If the number of performances per week is different, or the employee has not claimed the tax-free threshold, use the formulas in this schedule to calculate withholding amounts. To work out the amount you need to withhold using the withholding lookup tool: Input the employee's daily earnings (ignoring any cents) into the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file and refer to the corresponding amount to be withheld in column 2. If the employee has claimed any tax offsets, see Claiming tax offsets to work out the daily value of the amount claimed. Subtract the daily value of the tax offsets from the amount found in step 1. Example: Calculating the withholding amount An employee has claimed the tax-free threshold, earns $279.35 daily, works 3 performances this week and claims tax offsets of $500. Ignoring cents, input $279 into the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file and refer to the corresponding amount to be withheld in column 2 of $20.00. Reduce this amount by the daily value of the tax offsets of $3.00 ($500 ÷ 52 ÷ 3 rounded to the nearest dollar). The amount to withhold is $17.00 ($20.00 − $3.00). End of example Using a formula The withholding amounts shown in this schedule can be expressed in a mathematical form. If you have developed your own payroll or accounting software package, use the formulas and the coefficients outlined in Table A and Table B . This section should be read with Schedule 1 – Statement of formulas for calculating amounts to be withheld . The formulas comprise linear equations of the form y = ax − b where: y is the weekly withholding amount expressed in dollars x is the weekly earnings rounded down to whole dollars plus 99 cents a and b are the values of the coefficient for the formulas as shown in tables A and B. Employee has claimed the tax-free threshold Table A: Coefficients where tax-free threshold claimed Weekly earnings (x) a b Less than $452 - - Less than $673 0.1200 54.3462 Less than $841 0.2000 108.2135 Less than $901 0.1360 54.3473 Less than $1,081 0.1432 60.8377 Less than $1,602 0.2582 185.1935 Less than $3,245 0.2560 181.7319 Less than $4,567 0.3120 363.4627 $4,567 & over 0.3760 655.7704 Employee has not claimed the tax-free threshold Table B: Coefficients where tax-free threshold not claimed Weekly earnings (x) a b Less than $235 0.1200 0.1200 Less than $463 0.1667 11.0185 Less than $644 0.1432 0.1066 Less than $1,165 0.2582 74.1674 Less than $2,807 0.2560 71.6508 Less than $4,129 0.3120 228.8816 $4,129 & over 0.3760 493.1893 To work out withholding amounts using the formulas, you must: Ignore any cents, multiply the per performance earnings by the number of performances for the week to derive the weekly equivalent. Add 99 cents to the result. Calculate the weekly amount by applying the relevant coefficients from table A or B above, rounding to the nearest dollar. Divide this amount by the number of performances for the week to work out the per performance withholding amount. Multiply this amount by the number of performances per day to convert it to the daily earnings equivalent. Round the daily withholding amount to the nearest dollar. If you pay your employees daily, rather than per performance, the amount to withhold (including reductions for tax offsets) should be worked out on a daily basis. Example: claiming tax-free threshold Sandra has 2 performances for the week, one on Thursday and one on Saturday. Sandra earns $500.35 for each performance. She has claimed the tax-free threshold. $500 × 2 = $1,000. Add 99 cents to the result = $1,000.99. $1,000.99 × 0.1432 − 60.8377 = $82.5041. Round to the nearest dollar = $83. $83 ÷ 2 = $41.50. Round to the nearest dollar = $42. Therefore, the amount to withhold from each performance is $42. As there is only one performance per day, the daily withholding amount is the same as the per performance withholding amount. End of example Software Payroll or accounting software written in accordance with the formulas in this schedule should be tested for accuracy against the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file . The results obtained when using the coefficients in this schedule may differ slightly from the lookup tool. The differences result from the rounding of components. Withholding calculated using either method is accepted. Tax file number (TFN) declarations The answers your employees provide on their Tax file number declaration help determine the amount you need to withhold from their payments. A Tax file number declaration applies to any payments made after you receive the declaration. If you receive an updated declaration from an employee, it will override the previous one. If an employee does not give you a valid Tax file number declaration within 14 days of starting an employer-employee relationship, you must tell us by: providing employment and tax information about your payee in your STP Phase 2 reporting and including the applicable tax treatment code beginning in ‘N’, or completing a Tax file number declaration  form with all available details of the employee and sending it to us. When a TFN has not been provided You must withhold 47% from any payment you make to a resident employee and 45% from a foreign resident employee (ignoring any cents), if all of the following apply: they have not quoted their TFN they have not claimed an exemption from quoting their TFN they have not advised you that they have applied for a TFN or have made an enquiry with us. If an employee states at question 1 of the Tax file number declaration they have lodged a Tax file number – application or enquiry for individuals with us, they have 28 days to provide you with their TFN. If an employee has not given you their TFN within 28 days, you must withhold 47% from any payment you make to a resident employee and 45% from a foreign resident employee (ignoring any cents) unless we tell you not to. Do not: allow for any tax offsets make Medicare levy adjustments withhold any amount for study and training support loans. When your employee is a foreign resident If your employee has answered that they are a foreign resident for tax purposes on their Tax file number declaration , you will need to use the foreign resident tax rates. There are 2 ways you can withhold from a foreign resident’s earnings: if they have not given you a valid TFN, you need to withhold 45% for each $1 of earnings (ignoring any cents) if they have given you a valid TFN, you need to withhold the amount calculated using the foreign resident tax rates, rounding any cents to the nearest dollar. Foreign resident tax rates Weekly tax rates Weekly earnings $ Weekly rate 0 to 2,595 30 cents for each dollar of earnings 2,596 to 3,652 $779 plus 37 cents for each $1 of earnings over $2,595 3,653 & over $1,170 plus 45 cents for each $1 of earnings over $3,652 Foreign residents cannot claim tax offsets to reduce withholding. If your foreign resident employee has claimed a tax offset on the Withholding declaration , don’t make any adjustments to the amount you withhold. Withholding declarations Employees can use a Withholding declaration to advise you of any changes to their circumstances that may affect the amount you need to withhold from their payments. Changes that may affect the amount you need to withhold include the employee: becoming or ceasing to be an Australian resident for tax purposes claiming or discontinuing a claim for the tax-free threshold advising of a Higher Education Loan Program (HELP), VET Student Loan (VSL), Financial Supplement (FS), (Student Start up Loan) SSL or Australian Apprenticeship Loan (AASL) debt, or changes to them. An employee may also use a Withholding declaration to advise you of a tax offset they choose to claim through reduced withholding from you. For more information, see Claiming tax offsets . When your employee provides you with a Withholding declaration it will take effect from the next payment you make. If you receive an updated declaration from an employee, it will replace the previous one. An employee must have provided you with a valid Tax file number declaration before they can provide you with a Withholding declaration . Claiming tax offsets If your employee chooses to claim their entitlement to a tax offset through reduced withholding, they must provide you with a Withholding declaration. If your employee claims a tax offset, reduce the amount to be withheld from their earnings per performance by the value of the tax offset. The per performance value is the tax offset amount claimed divided by 52, divided by the number of performances per week. Round the result to the nearest dollar. Do not allow for any tax offsets if any of the following apply: when no TFN has been provided you are using foreign resident rates the employee has not claimed the tax-free threshold. PAYG withholding publications You can access all PAYG withholding tax tables and other PAYG withholding publications at: Tax tables PAYG withholding . QC 107121 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).