Schedule 4 – Tax table for return to work payments | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Schedule 4 – Tax table for return to work payments Work out the tax to withhold from a payment to an individual to resume work or provide services. Published 17 June 2026 Print or Download Using this schedule This schedule applies to payments made from 1 July 2026. This withholding schedule is made by the Commissioner of Taxation in accordance with sections 15–25 and 15–30 of Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (TAA). It applies to withholding payments covered by section 12–50 of Schedule 1 to the TAA. Use this schedule if you pay an individual to resume working for, or providing services to, you or any other entity. If you employ individuals under a working holiday makers visa, use Schedule 15 – Tax table for working holiday makers  for all payments made to them, including return to work payments. Use the Tax withheld calculator to help you work out the correct amount of tax to withhold from payments to most payees. Working out the withholding amount To work out the amount you need to withhold, multiply the amount of the return to work payment by 32%. This rate applies to residents and non-residents. Example: calculating the withholding amount George previously worked for IT Services Pty Ltd. Due to a shortage in IT personnel, IT Services Pty Ltd offered George a position if he would return to work for it. He was paid $18,000 to start work, in addition to his salary. The total amount IT Services Pty Ltd must withhold from the return to work payment is 32% of $18,000 = $5,760. End of example Rounding of withholding amounts Withholding amounts calculated using this schedule are rounded to the nearest dollar. Results ending in 50 cents are rounded up to the next dollar. If a TFN is not provided, ignore cents when calculating withholding amounts. Tax file number (TFN) declarations The answers your payee provides on their Tax file number declaration help determine the amount you need to withhold from their payments. A Tax file number declaration applies to payments made after you receive the declaration. If you receive an updated declaration from a payee, it will override the previous one. If a payee does not give you a valid Tax file number declaration within 14 days of starting a payer-payee relationship, you must tell us by: providing employment and tax information about your payee in your STP Phase 2 reporting and including the applicable tax treatment code beginning in ‘N’, or completing a  Tax file number declaration  form with all available details of the payee and sending it to us. When a TFN has not been provided You must withhold 47% from any payment you make to a resident payee and 45% from a foreign resident payee (ignoring any cents) if all the following apply: they have not quoted their TFN they have not claimed an exemption from quoting their TFN they have not advised you that they have applied for a TFN or made an enquiry with us. If a payee states at question 1 of the Tax file number declaration they have lodged a Tax file number – application or enquiry for individuals , they have 28 days to give you their TFN. If the payee has not given you their TFN within 28 days, you must withhold 47% from any payment made to a resident payee and 45% from any payment made to a foreign resident payee (ignoring any cents) unless we tell you not to. PAYG withholding publications For all PAYG withholding tax tables and other PAYG withholding publications, see: Tax tables PAYG withholding . QC 107122 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).