Schedule 6 – Tax table for annuities | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Schedule 6 – Tax table for annuities Work out the tax to withhold from annuity payments from non-super income streams. Published 17 June 2026 Print or Download Using this schedule This schedule is for payments made from 1 July 2026 This withholding schedule is made by the Commissioner of Taxation in accordance with sections 15–25 and 15–30 of Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (TAA). It applies to withholding payments covered by paragraph 12–80(b) of Schedule 1 to the TAA. Use this schedule if you pay an annuity that was purchased with non-superannuation money, for example, an initial capital investment of personal cash. For annuities purchased using money rolled over from a super fund or super income stream payments, use Schedule 13 – Tax table for superannuation income streams . Working out the withholding amount Work out the withholding amount for an annuity payment purchased with non-superannuation money, you must: Work out the amount of income to withhold from using the following formula: Annuity payment − [Deductible amount / Number of instalments] In this formula: deductible amount represents the amount of the annuity payment that is exempt from tax. This amount is calculated using the formula found in section 27H of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 Where the annuity is held in only one person's name, the following formula is used: (Undeducted purchase price of the annuity − Residual capital value) / Term of annuity or life expectation factor. The undeducted purchase price is generally the amount of the initial capital investment. Where the annuity is held or payable to 2 or more people, the deductible amount is apportioned depending on the amount each person received. number of instalments is the number of instalments of the annuity payable in the income year. Use the corresponding PAYG withholding tax table to find the withholding amount. The tax table you use depends on the period which the annuity is paid – for example, weekly or fortnightly. Some payees may be eligible to claim the seniors and pensioners tax offset (SAPTO). If your payee gives you a Withholding declaration indicating that they want to claim a SAPTO entitlement through PAYG withholding, use Schedule 9 – Tax table for seniors and pensioners  to work out the amount to withhold from the income amount calculated in step 1. Rounding of withholding amounts Withholding amounts calculated using the above formulas should be rounded to the nearest dollar. Results ending in 50 cents are rounded up to the next dollar. Do this rounding directly – that is, do not make a preliminary rounding to the nearest cent. If a TFN is not provided, ignore cents when calculating withholding amounts. Examples These examples use the PAYG withholding tax tables that apply from 1 July 2026. Example 1: weekly annuity payments Barbara has an annuity she purchased following the sale of a property. She receives annuity payments of $1,000 a week. The deductible amount for the 2026–27 income year is $5,200. The amount of income to withhold tax from: Annuity payment − [Deductible amount / Number of instalments] = $1,000 − [$5,200 / 52] = $1,000 − $100 = $900 Barbara is not eligible for SAPTO, so the payer will use the Weekly tax table (NAT 1005) to work out how much tax to withhold from $900. If Barbara is claiming the tax-free threshold, the amount of tax to be withheld is $106. End of example   Example 2: fortnightly annuity payments Kenneth will receive fortnightly annuity payments on the seventh and 21st day of the month from 7 February 2027. For the remainder of the income year, the annuity will be $850 per fortnight. The annuity is indexed annually, and the higher indexed amount is paid in the next financial year. Kenneth's deductible amount for a whole income year is $2,600. However, for the part of the current income year (2026–27) that he is to receive an annuity, his deductible amount is $1,000 (for the period 7 February 2027 to 30 June 2027). For the current income year, Kenneth will receive ten annuity instalments. The amount of income to withhold tax from: Annuity payment − [Deductible amount / Number of instalments] = $850 − [$1,000 / 10] = $850 − $100 = $750 Kenneth is not eligible for SAPTO, so the payer will use the Fortnightly tax table (NAT 1006) to work out how much tax to withhold from $750. If Kenneth is claiming the tax-free threshold, the amount of tax to be withheld is $4. End of example Tax file number (TFN) declarations The answers your payees provide on their Tax file number declaration help determine the amount you need to withhold from their annuity payments. A Tax file number declaration applies to any payments made after you receive the declaration. If you receive an updated declaration from a payee, it will override the previous one. If a payee does not give you a valid Tax file number declaration within 14 days of starting a payer-payee relationship, you must tell us by completing a Tax file number declaration form with all available details of the payee and sending it to us. When a TFN has not been provided You must withhold 47% from any payment you make to a resident payee and 45% from any payment you make to a foreign resident payee (ignoring any cents), if it is an annuity payment that is not a superannuation income stream and all the following apply: they have not quoted their TFN they have not claimed an exemption from quoting their TFN they have not advised you that they have applied for a TFN or have made an enquiry with us. If a payee states at question 1 of the Tax file number declaration they have lodged a Tax file number – application or enquiry for individuals with us, they have 28 days to provide you with their TFN. If the payee has not given you their TFN within 28 days, you must withhold 47% for any annuity payment you make to a resident payee and 45% for any annuity payment you make to a foreign resident payee (ignoring any cents) unless we tell you not to. When a TFN has not been provided do not allow for tax offsets or Medicare levy adjustments. Do not withhold any amount for study and training support loans. Payment summaries You must issue a PAYG payment summary – individual non-business to the payee by 14 July following the end of the financial year in which you made payments to them. However, if your payee requests a payment summary from you during the financial year, you must provide it within 14 days of receiving their request. PAYG withholding publications For all PAYG withholding tax tables and other PAYG withholding publications, see: Tax tables PAYG withholding . QC 107124 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).