Fortnightly tax table with no and half Medicare levy | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Fortnightly tax table with no and half Medicare levy Withholding tax table for fortnightly payments made to a prescribed person entitled to a full or half Medicare exemption. Last updated 17 June 2026 Print or Download Using this tax table This tax table is for payments made from 1 July 2026. Use this tax table if you make the following fortnightly payments to a prescribed person who is entitled to a full or half Medicare levy exemption: Prescribed persons include members of the defence force and certain recipients of repatriation and social security pensions and benefits. salary, wages, allowances and leave loading paid to employees paid parental leave directors' fees salary and allowances paid to office holders (including members of parliament, statutory office holders, defence force members and police officers) payments to labour-hire workers payments to religious practitioners government education or training payments compensation, sickness or accident payments that are calculated at a periodical rate and made because a person is unable to work (unless the payment is made under an insurance policy to the policy owner). Payees who are prescribed persons include members of the defence force and certain recipients of repatriation and social security pensions and benefits. For this tax table to apply, your payee must have completed both a: Tax file number declaration claiming the tax-free threshold Medicare levy variation declaration claiming a full or half levy exemption from their Medicare levy. Other tax tables may apply if you made payments to shearers, workers in the horticultural industry, performing artists and those engaged on a daily or casual basis. This tax table does not apply to individuals who are not prescribed persons. The table also does not apply to foreign residents, individuals employed in the seasonal workers programme, the Pacific Australia Labour Mobility scheme or under a working holiday maker visa. If you make a payment to your payee who is entitled to an adjustment to the Medicare half levy, refer to Weekly tax table with no and half Medicare levy . You can also: use the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file  to quickly work out the amount to withhold download a printable version of Fortnightly tax table with no and half Medicare Levy (NAT 74228, PDF 881KB) This link will download a file . Using a formula The withholding amounts shown in this tax table can be expressed in a mathematical form. If you have developed your own payroll or accounting software package, refer to Schedule 1 – Statement of formulas for calculating amounts to be withheld . Refer to Weekly tax table with no and half Medicare levy  for other important PAYG withholding information for payers, including: Tax file number (TFN) declarations Withholding declarations Medicare levy adjustment allowances foreign residents tax rates Study and training support loans debt leave payments and employment termination payments tax offsets. Working out the withholding amount To work out the withholding amount, follow these steps : Calculate your payee's total fortnightly earnings – add any allowances and irregular payments that are to be included in this fortnight's pay period to the normal fortnightly earnings, ignoring any cents. Input the amount from step 1 into the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file as per instructions in the tool. Use the appropriate column to find the amount to withhold. If your payee is claiming: full Medicare levy exemption, use column 2 half Medicare levy exemption, use column 3. Adjust the withholding amount found in step 3 if your payee is entitled to a tax offset is entitled to an adjustment for the Medicare levy – half levy has advised you of an accumulated Higher Education Loan Program (HELP), VET Student Loan (VSL), Financial Supplement (FS), Student Start-up Loan (SSL) or Australian Apprenticeship Support Loan (AASL) debt. See Study and training support loans fortnightly tax table . Ready reckoner for tax offsets Tax offset entitlement – fortnightly value Amount claimed $ Fortnightly value $ Amount claimed $ Fortnightly value $ Amount claimed $ Fortnightly value $ 1 – 80 3 1,800 68 2 – 90 3 2,000 76 3 – 100 4 2,200 84 4 – 200 8 2,400 91 5 – 300 11 2,600 99 6 – 338 13 2,800 106 7 – 400 15 3,000 114 8 – 500 19 3,200 122 9 – 600 23 3,400 129 10 – 700 27 3,600 137 20 1 800 30 3,800 144 30 1 900 34 4,000 152 40 2 1,000 38     50 2 1,173 45     57 2 1,200 46     60 2 1,400 53     70 3 1,600 61     If the exact tax offset amount claimed is not shown in the ready reckoner, add the values for an appropriate combination of tax offsets. Example: calculating tax offset entitlement Tax offsets of $422 claimed. For a fortnightly value add values of $400, $20 and $2 from the fortnightly value column. = $15 + $1 + $0 = $16 Therefore, reduce the amount to be withheld from fortnightly payments by $16. End of example PAYG withholding publications You can access all PAYG withholding tax tables and other PAYG withholding publications at: Tax tables PAYG withholding QC 107145 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).