Fortnightly tax table | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Fortnightly tax table Withholding tax table for payments made on a fortnightly basis. Published 17 June 2026 Print or Download Using this tax table This tax table applies to payments made from 1 July 2026. Use this tax table if you make any of the following payments to an individual on a fortnightly basis: salary, wages, allowances and leave loading to employees paid parental leave directors' fees salary and allowances to office holders (including members of parliament, statutory office holders, defence force members and police officers) payments to labour-hire workers payments to religious practitioners government education or training payments compensation, sickness or accident payments that are calculated at a periodical rate and made because a person is unable to work (unless the payment is made under an insurance policy to the policy owner). Also use this tax table for payments made to foreign residents. Other tax tables may apply if you made payments to shearers, workers in the horticultural industry, performing artists and those engaged on a daily or casual basis. If you employ individuals under a working holiday makers visa, you must use Schedule 15 – Tax table for working holiday makers  for all payments made to them, including lump sum payments. You can also: use the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 26KB) This link will download a file to quickly work out the amount to withhold download a printable lookup table of fortnightly tax table (PDF, 1.2MB) This link will download a file . Working out the withholding amount To work out the withholding amount: Calculate your payee's total fortnightly earnings – add any allowances and irregular payments that are to be included in this fortnight's pay to the normal fortnightly earnings, ignoring any cents. Input the amount from step 1 into the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 26KB) This link will download a file , as per instructions in the tool. Use the appropriate column to find the correct amount to withhold. If your payee is claiming the tax-free threshold, use column 2 not claiming the tax-free threshold, use column 3. If your payee has an entitlement to a tax offset, use the Ready reckoner for tax offsets to convert the payee estimate of their full-year entitlement into a fortnightly offset value. Then subtract this value from the withholding amount found in step 3. If your payee is entitled to make an adjustment for the Medicare levy, subtract the value of the adjustment, determined from the Medicare levy adjustment fortnightly tax table from the amount found in step 4. If your payee has advised you of an accumulated Higher Education Loan Program (HELP), VET Student Loan (VSL), Financial Supplement (FS), Student Start-up Loan (SSL) or Australian Apprenticeship Support Loan (AASL) debt, add the amount determined from the Study and training support loans fortnightly tax table  to the amount you calculated in step 5. Do not allow for any tax offsets or Medicare levy adjustment if: you use column 3 you use foreign resident tax rates the payee has not provided you with their TFN. Example: calculating the withholding amount A payee has fortnightly earnings of $989.80. To work out the correct amount to withhold, ignore cents, input $989 into the  Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 26KB) This link will download a file If the payee is: claiming the tax-free threshold, use column 2 to find the correct amount to withhold ($40). not claiming the tax-free threshold, use column 3 to find the correct amount to withhold ($176). End of example When there are 27 pays in a financial year A financial year sometimes has 27 pays instead of 26 pays. As this tax table is based on 26 pays, the extra pay may result in insufficient amounts being withheld for an individual's end of year tax assessment. You should let your payees know when there are 27 pays. If a payee is concerned about a tax shortfall, they can ask you to withhold an additional amount from each fortnightly pay, shown in the table below. Additional withholding per fortnight Fortnightly earnings $ Additional withholding $ 1,700 to 5,199 12 5,200 to 7,249 27 7,250 & over 48 Using a formula The withholding amounts shown in this tax table can be expressed in a mathematical form. If you have developed your own payroll or accounting software package, refer to Schedule 1 – Statement of formulas for calculating amounts to be withheld . Tax file number (TFN) declarations The answers your payees provide on their Tax file number declaration help determine the amount you need to withhold from their payments. A Tax file number declaration applies to any payments made after you receive the declaration. If you receive an updated declaration from a payee, it will override the previous one. If a payee does not give you a valid Tax file number declaration within 14 days of starting a payer-payee relationship, you must tell us by: providing employment and tax information about your payee in your STP Phase 2 reporting and including the applicable tax treatment code beginning in ‘N’, or completing a Tax file number declaration form with all available details of the payee and sending it to us. When a TFN has not been provided You must withhold 47% from any payment you make to a resident payee and 45% from a foreign resident payee (ignoring any cents), if all the following apply: they have not quoted their TFN they have not claimed an exemption from quoting their TFN they have not advised you that they have applied for a TFN or have made an enquiry with us. If a payee states at question 1 of the Tax file number declaration they have lodged a Tax file number – application or enquiry for individuals with us, they have 28 days to provide you with their TFN. If the payee has not given you their TFN within 28 days, you must withhold 47% from any payment you make to a resident payee and 45% from a foreign resident payee (ignoring any cents) unless we tell you not to. Do not: allow for any tax offsets make Medicare levy adjustments withhold any amount for study and training support loans. When your payee has a study and training support loan debt If your payee has a HELP, VSL, FS, SSL or AASL debt, you may need to withhold additional amounts from their payments. Your payee will notify you of this on their Tax file number declaration or Withholding declaration . To calculate additional withholding amounts for: HELP, VSL, FS, SSL or AASL debts, refer to Study and training support loans fortnightly tax table . Allowances Allowances are generally added to normal earnings and the amount to withhold is calculated on the total amount of earnings and allowances. For more information on when to withhold and report on allowances, refer to Withholding for allowances . Leave payments and termination payments made to employees Employees who continue working for you You must include holiday pay (including any leave loading) and long service leave payments as part of normal earnings, except when they are paid on termination of employment. For more information, refer to Withholding from leave payments for continuing employees . Employees who stop working for you This tax table does not cover any lump sum payments made to an employee who stops working for you. If an employee has unused annual leave, leave loading or long service leave, refer to Schedule 7 – Tax table for unused leave payments on termination of employment . Any other lump sum payments may be employment termination payments. Refer to Schedule 11 – Tax table for employment termination payments . Do not withhold any amount for study and training support loans debts from lump sum termination payments. Leave loading If you pay leave loading as a lump sum, use Schedule 5 – Tax table for back payments, commissions, bonuses and similar payments  to calculate withholding. If you pay leave loading on a pro-rata basis, then add the leave loading payment to earnings for the period to calculate withholding. Withholding declarations A payee may use a Withholding declaration to advise you of a tax offset they choose to claim through reduced withholding from you. Payees can also use a Withholding declaration to advise you of any changes to their circumstances that may affect the amount you need to withhold from their payments. Changes that may affect the amount you need to withhold include the payee: becoming or ceasing to be an Australian resident for tax purposes claiming or discontinuing a claim for the tax-free threshold advising of a HELP, VSL, FS, SSL or AASL debt, or changes to them claiming an entitlement to a seniors and pensioners tax offset. When your payee provides you with a Withholding declaration it will take effect from the next payment you make. If you receive an updated declaration from a payee, it will replace the previous one. A payee must have provided you with a valid Tax file number declaration before they can provide you with a Withholding declaration . Claiming tax offsets If your payee chooses to claim their entitlement to a tax offset through reduced withholding, they must provide you with a Withholding declaration . To work out a payee’s annual tax offset entitlement as a fortnightly value, use the Ready reckoner for tax offsets . Deduct the fortnightly amount from the amount shown in column 2 of the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 26KB) This link will download a file . Do not allow for any tax offsets if any of the following apply: you are using column 3 you are using foreign resident tax rates when a payee does not provide you with their TFN. Example: claiming tax offsets A payee has fortnightly earnings of $987 and, if using column 2, the amount to be withheld is $40. The payee claims a tax offset entitlement of $1,000 on their Withholding declaration . Using the Ready reckoner for tax offsets , the fortnightly value is $38. The total amount to be withheld is worked out as follows: Amount to be withheld on $987 = $40.00 less fortnightly offset value − $38.00 Total amount to be withheld = $2.00 End of example Ready reckoner for tax offsets Tax offset entitlement – fortnightly value Amount claimed $ Fortnightly value $ 1 – 2 – 3 – 4 – 5 – 6 – 7 – 8 – 9 – 10 – 20 1 30 1 40 2 50 2 57 2 60 2 70 3 80 3 90 3 100 4 200 8 300 11 338 13 400 15 500 19 600 23 700 27 800 30 900 34 1,000 38 1,173 45 1,200 46 1,400 53 1,600 61 1,800 68 2,000 76 2,200 84 2,400 91 2,600 99 2,800 106 3,000 114 3,200 122 3,400 129 3,600 137 3,800 144 4,000 152 If the exact tax offset amount claimed is not shown in the ready reckoner, add the values for an appropriate combination. Example: calculating tax offset when amount is not shown in the ready reckoner Tax offsets of $422 claimed. Add values of $400, $20 and $2. = $15 + $1 + $0 = $16 Therefore, reduce the amount to be withheld by $16. End of example Medicare levy adjustment To claim the Medicare levy adjustment (available in certain situations), your payee must lodge a Medicare levy variation declaration with their Tax file number declaration . Some payees may be liable for an increased rate of the Medicare levy surcharge as a result of the income for surcharge purposes tests. They can lodge a Medicare levy variation declaration , requesting you to increase the amount to be withheld from their payments. For instructions on how to work out the Medicare levy adjustment, refer to Medicare levy adjustment fortnightly tax table . When your payee is a foreign resident If your payee has answered that they are a foreign resident for tax purposes on their Tax file number declaration , you will need to use the foreign resident tax rates. There are 2 ways you can withhold from a foreign resident’s earnings: If the payee has not given you a valid TFN, you need to withhold 45% for each $1 of earnings (ignoring any cents). If the payee has given you a valid TFN, you need to withhold the amount calculated using the foreign resident tax rates below, rounding any cents to the nearest dollar. Foreign resident tax rates Fortnightly tax rates Fortnightly earnings $ Fortnightly rate 0 to 5,191 30 cents for each dollar of earnings 5,192 to 7,305 $1,557 plus 37 cents for each $1 of earnings over $5,191 7,306 & over $2,339 plus 45 cents for each $1 of earnings over $7,305 Foreign residents cannot claim tax offsets to reduce withholding. If your foreign resident payee has claimed a tax offset on the Withholding declaration , don’t make any adjustments to the amount you withhold. PAYG withholding publications You can access all PAYG withholding tax tables and other PAYG withholding publications at: Tax tables PAYG withholding QC 107135 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).