Key super rates and thresholds | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Key super rates and thresholds Rates and thresholds apply to contributions, employment termination payments, super guarantee and co-contributions. Last updated 27 August 2025 Print or Download Contributions caps Contributing more than the caps to your super may mean having to pay extra tax. Division 293 tax Division 293 tax may reduce the tax concession on super contributions for individuals. Payments from super What you need to be aware of when receiving payments from your super. Super income stream tax tables A summary of the taxation of a super income stream paid with an element taxed and untaxed in the fund. Employment termination payments Find out what an employment termination payment (ETP) is and what the cap amounts are. Super guarantee Find out about the rates and the maximum contribution base. Government contributions You may be eligible for the government's super co-contribution. Transfer balance cap Find out about the limit on the total amount of superannuation that can be transferred into the retirement phase. Other super rates and thresholds Find out about what other super rates and thresholds you need to be aware of. QC 18123 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).