Schedule 10 – Tax table for payments made under voluntary agreements | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Schedule 10 – Tax table for payments made under voluntary agreements Work out the tax to withhold from payments made to an individual under a voluntary agreement. Published 17 June 2026 Print or Download Using this schedule This schedule applies to payments made from 1 July 2026. This withholding schedule is made by the Commissioner of Taxation in accordance with sections 15-25 and 15-30 of Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (TAA). It applies to withholding payments covered by section 12-55 of Schedule 1 to the TAA. Use this schedule if you make payments to an individual under a voluntary agreement to withhold. How to work out the withholding amount To work out the withholding amount, you need to assess whether the payee has informed you of their Commissioner’s instalment rate (CIR) and whether the amount includes GST. For more information, refer to PAYG withholding – voluntary agreements . If the payee has informed you of their CIR If the payee has informed you of their CIR, use the following to work out how much to withhold: If the payee’s CIR is greater than or equal to 20% – withhold the amount worked out by multiplying the amount of the payment by the CIR. If the payee’s CIR is less than 20% – withhold the amount worked out by multiplying the amount of the payment by 20%. However, if your voluntary agreement with the payee states that their CIR will apply, you must withhold the amount worked out by multiplying the amount of the payment by the CIR. If the payee has informed you that they don't have a CIR You must withhold 20% of the amount of the payment. If the payment includes an amount for GST If the payment includes an amount for GST, you exclude this GST amount when calculating the appropriate rate to withhold. Example: using CIR Francesca is a marketing consultant who receives income from many sources. She has a voluntary agreement to withhold with Ashfield Accounting (her largest payer) and they have agreed to use her CIR of 16.44%. Ashfield Accounting calculates the amount to be withheld by multiplying the amount of each payment (excluding any GST component) by 16.44%. If Francesca and Ashfield Accounting did not have an agreement to use her CIR, the rate of withholding would be 20%. End of example Rounding of withholding amounts Withholding amounts calculated by applying this schedule are rounded to the nearest dollar. Results ending in 50 cents are rounded up to the next dollar. PAYG withholding publications For PAYG withholding tax tables and other PAYG withholding publications, see: Tax tables PAYG withholding . QC 107128 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).