Schedule 11 – Tax table for employment termination payments | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Schedule 11 – Tax table for employment termination payments Work out the tax to withhold from an employment termination payment or delayed termination payment. Last updated 17 June 2026 Print or Download Using this schedule This schedule applies to payments made from 1 July 2026. This withholding schedule is made by the Commissioner of Taxation in accordance with sections 15-25 and 15-30 of Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (TAA). It applies to withholding payments covered by paragraph 12-85(b) of Schedule 1 to the TAA. Use this schedule if you pay an individual an amount that is either: an employment termination payment (ETP) a delayed termination payment – a payment that would be an ETP but was paid more than 12 months after the relevant termination of employment. If you employ individuals under a working holiday makers visa, you must use Schedule 15 – Tax table for working holiday makers  for all payments made to them, including ETPs. For more information, see: Taxation of termination payments for information about ETPs for employers and employees Delayed termination payments . Employment termination payments An ETP is a lump sum payment you make to an: employee when their employment is terminated (referred to as a 'Life benefit' ETP) employee’s estate because their employment has been terminated due to death (referred to as a 'Death benefit' ETP). ETPs include lump sum payments paid upon resignation, retirement or death. A payment from a super fund is not an ETP. A payment must generally be made within 12 months of termination to qualify as an ETP. A payment made outside of 12 months is a delayed termination payment, unless we have given approval for the payment to be treated as an ETP. Tax treatment of ETPs ETPs can have 2 different components: a tax-free component a taxable component. You only withhold tax from the taxable component. Depending on the type of ETP, the concessional tax treatment may be limited to the smaller of: the ETP cap the whole-of-income cap. The top rate of tax applies to amounts paid in excess of these caps. The ETP cap amount for the 2026–27 income year is $270,000. This amount is indexed annually. The whole-of-income cap amount for the 2026–27 income year is $180,000. This amount is not indexed. This cap is reduced by any other taxable income payments your employee receives in the income year – for example, salary or wages you have paid to your employee. In some cases, you may need to include an ETP in the taxable payments when working out the whole-of-income cap. The ETP payment summary has an ETP code that you use to describe the type of ETP and which cap has been applied to it. For more information, see: ETP reporting about ETP codes. Taxation of termination payments ETP caps The following table lists the types of ETPs that are subject to withholding and the applicable cap for each type of payment. For payments in column 2, both caps are considered, and the smaller cap applies. Withholding will be required to be made at the top rate of tax on the amount over the smaller of the 2 caps. Applicable caps for ETPs subject to withholding Column 1 ETP cap only applies to: Column 2 Smaller of the ETP cap or whole-of-income cap applies to: a payment made under an early retirement scheme that exceeds the tax-free limit (see Note 1 ) – only the amount in excess of the limit is an ETP a ‘golden handshake’ whether paid under: contract industrial award obligation recognition of prior service   a genuine redundancy payment that exceeds the tax-free base limit and for each complete year of service limit (see Note 1 ) – only the amount in excess of the limit is an ETP a non-genuine redundancy payment a payment made because of the employee’s permanent disability severance pay compensation payment for personal injury a gratuity compensation for unfair dismissal a payment in lieu of notice compensation for harassment a payment for unused sick leave compensation for discrimination a payment for unused rostered days off lump sum payments paid on the death of an employee. an ETP not covered in column 1. Note 1: The tax-free base limit for the 2026-27 income year is $13,598 plus $6,801 for each completed year of service. For more information, see Working out the withholding amount . Steps to work out smallest cap Follow these steps to work out the smaller of the ETP cap and whole-of-income cap: Add up all taxable payments you made to your employee (excluding the ETP). Subtract the step 1 result amount from $180,000. The result from step 2 is the calculated whole-of-income cap. Compare the calculated whole-of-income cap from step 3 and the ETP cap amount of $270,000 for 2026-27 (or the balance of ETP cap if a payment component has already applied to the ETP cap where there have been multiple payments for the same termination). If both caps are equal, use the whole-of-income cap. The smaller of the 2 caps at step 4 is the cap to apply to the ETP taxable component. Multiple payments for same termination ETPs may be made in more than one instalment. Payments made after the initial payment subject to the ETP cap, will attract a lower ETP cap. This is because the cap amount is reduced by the amount of all previous payments for the same termination. Lump sum payments that are not ETPs may also be subject to PAYG withholding. Use the applicable tax table to work out the amount to be withheld from these payments. See Tax table for unused leave payments on termination of employment  for unused annual leave, leave loading or long service leave payments. Death benefit ETPs A death benefit termination payment is received by a person after another person’s death, in consequence of termination of the other person’s employment. The amount to withhold depends on a number of factors including whether the payment is made: directly to a dependant of the deceased directly to a non-dependant of the deceased to the trustee of the deceased estate. Use Table A to work out how much to withhold. For more information see Deceased estates . Working out the withholding amount An ETP can be made up of a tax-free component and taxable component. You must withhold an amount from the taxable component, including death benefit ETPs. Do not withhold from the tax-free component of the ETP. If your employee who is receiving an ETP has given you their tax file number (TFN) on a Tax file number declaration , use Table A to work out how much to withhold. A Tax file number declaration remains effective for 12 months after you make the last payment to them. Withholding amounts calculated by applying Table A are rounded to the nearest dollar. Results ending in 50 cents are rounded up to the next dollar. If the payment is to be made to a foreign resident, you will need to check if there is a tax treaty with their country of residence. The full list of our tax treaties is maintained by Treasury and can be found at Australian Tax Treaties External Link . If the ETP is assessable only in the other country because of the treaty, then no withholding is required. If a foreign resident's ETP is assessable in Australia, you are required to withhold from the payment. Adjust the rates set out in Table A to exclude the Medicare levy of 2%. For more information, see: Taxation of termination payments about ETP components Tax file number declaration Income tax treaties When a TFN has not been provided You must withhold 47% from the taxable component of an ETP you make to a resident employee and 45% from a foreign resident employee (ignoring any cents) who has not given you their TFN. Examples Example 1: ETP cap Lloyd is an employee of BigBiz Pty Ltd and is 41 years old. His preservation age is 60. He is made redundant from his position at BigBiz and receives an ETP of $45,000. This is the taxable amount remaining after Lloyd received a genuine redundancy payment. (The amount that exceeds the tax-free base limit and for each complete year of service limit is an ETP.) The ETP has no tax-free component. BigBiz is required to withhold from the ETP. Lloyd has previously provided his TFN to BigBiz and claimed the tax-free threshold. BigBiz classifies the payment as a genuine redundancy and, using Table A , works out that only the ETP cap applies. As Lloyd is under preservation age and his entire ETP fits within the ETP cap amount, BigBiz withholds $14,400 from Lloyd’s ETP. This is 32% of Lloyd’s taxable component of $45,000. End of example   Example 2: whole-of-income cap – payment less than cap Jane is an employee of SmallBiz Pty Ltd and is 50 years old. Jane’s preservation age is 60. Jane resigns from SmallBiz to start a new business. Up until Jane’s date of resignation, SmallBiz paid Jane salary and wages totalling $84,000. Under her employment contract, Jane will receive a ‘golden handshake’ of $10,000 from SmallBiz. This payment is an ETP and has a taxable component of $10,000. SmallBiz is required to withhold an amount under the PAYG withholding system. Jane had previously provided her TFN to SmallBiz. SmallBiz must withhold an amount from the taxable component of $10,000. SmallBiz classifies the payment as a ‘golden handshake’. Using Table A and the following steps, SmallBiz works out which cap to apply and the withholding rate: Step SmallBiz action Result 1 Adds up all taxable payments (excluding the ETP) paid to Jane. $84,000 2 Subtracts the step 1 amount from $180,000. This is the calculated whole-of-income cap. $96,000 3 Determines the smallest cap by comparing the result from step 2 against the ETP cap amount of $270,000. Whole-of-income cap is smallest 4 Uses table A to determine the withholding rate on amounts up to the calculated whole-of-income cap of $96,000, remembering Jane is under preservation age. 32% 5 Uses table A to determine the withholding rate on amounts above the whole-of-income cap of $96,000. As the whole $10,000 ETP is under cap, no further calculation is required. Nil SmallBiz withholds $3,200 from Jane’s ETP of $10,000. This is 32% of Jane’s taxable component of $10,000. End of example   Example 3: whole-of-income cap – payment greater than cap Chris is younger than his preservation age . He has his employment terminated by MediumBiz in January. His employment termination does not meet the criteria of a genuine redundancy. MediumBiz paid Chris $50,000 in leave entitlements as a lump sum and $50,000 in salary and wages before his termination. In addition to this income, Chris is also paid an ETP with a taxable component of $120,000. As the ETP is not a genuine redundancy, MediumBiz classifies the payment as a ‘golden handshake’. Using Table A and the following steps, MediumBiz works out which cap to apply and the withholding rate: Step MediumBiz action Result 1 Adds up all taxable payments (excluding the ETP) paid to Chris. $100,000 2 Subtracts the step 1 amount from $180,000. This is the calculated whole-of-income cap. $80,000 3 Determines the smallest cap by comparing the result from step 2 against ETP cap amount of $270,000. Whole-of- income cap is smallest 4 Uses table A to determine the withholding rate on amounts up to the calculated whole-of-income cap of $80,000, remembering Chris is under preservation age. 32% 5 Uses table A to determine the withholding rate on amounts over the calculated whole-of-income cap of $80,000. An ETP of $120,000 less the cap amount $80,000 gives $40,000 over the cap. 47% MediumBiz withholds $44,400 from Chris’s ETP of $120,000. This is $25,600 ($80,000 × 32%) plus $18,800 ($40,000 × 47%) of Chris’s taxable component of $120,000. End of example   Example 4: ETP subject to both ETP cap and whole-of-income cap Alec is 30 and is made redundant by MacroBiz after 5 years of service and receives a termination payment of $65,678 that is part genuine redundancy ($48,000) and part gratuity ($17,678). Until his redundancy, Alec had received $140,000 in salary and wages for the income year. In this situation, the part of the payment that is subject to the ETP cap only is always dealt with first. Alec’s employer calculates the genuine redundancy amount over the tax-free limit (see Note 2 ) as $397. This is calculated as follows: $48,000 less $47,603 due to the 5 years of service [$13,598 base limit plus $34,005 (5 × $6,801)]. The amount of $397 is an ETP. Using Table A , his employer works out that only the ETP cap applies. Alec is under preservation age , so MacroBiz withholds $127 (32% of $397). Using Table A and the following steps, MacroBiz then works out which cap to apply and the withholding rate on Alec's $17,678 gratuity part of the ETP. Step MacroBiz action Result 1 Adds up all taxable payments, salary and wages paid to Alec. $140,000 2 Subtracts the step 1 amount from $180,000. This is the calculated whole-of-income cap. $40,000 3 Determines the smallest cap by comparing the result from step 2 against the ETP cap of $269,603 (ETP cap $270,000 for 2026-27 less the $397 ETP). Whole-of-income cap is smallest 4 Uses table A to determine the withholding rate on amounts up to the calculated whole-of-income cap of $40,000 remembering Alec is under preservation age. 32% 5 Uses table A to determine the withholding rate on amounts over the calculated whole-of-income cap of $40,000. As the $17,678 gratuity is under the cap, no further calculation is required. Nil MacroBiz withholds $127 from the $397 part of the ETP for genuine redundancy and $5,657 from the $17,678 gratuity part of the ETP. MacroBiz must issue Alec with 2 separate ETP payment summaries covering each part of the payment. Note 2: For more information about calculating the tax-free portion of a genuine redundancy payment, refer to Taxation of termination payments . End of example Withholding rates for ETPs Table A: Withholding rates for ETPs Income component derived by your employee in the income year Age of person at the end of the income year that the payment is received Component subject to PAYG withholding Rate of withholding Cap to apply Life benefit ETP – taxable component payment is because of: early retirement scheme genuine redundancy invalidity compensation for personal injury, unfair dismissal, harassment or discrimination.   Under preservation age Up to the ETP cap amount 32% ETP cap   Life benefit ETP – taxable component payment is because of:   early retirement scheme genuine redundancy invalidity compensation for personal injury, unfair dismissal, harassment or discrimination. Preservation age or over Up to the ETP cap amount 17% ETP cap    Life benefit ETP – taxable component payment is because of: early retirement scheme genuine redundancy invalidity compensation for personal injury, unfair dismissal, harassment or discrimination.  All ages Amount above the ETP cap amount 47% ETC cap   Life benefit ETP – taxable component payment is because is: a ‘golden handshake’ non-genuine redundancy payment severance pay a gratuity in lieu of notice for unused sick leave for unused rostered days off. Under preservation age Up to the relevant cap amount 32%  Smallest of ETP cap and whole-of-income cap  Life benefit ETP – taxable component payment is because is: a ‘golden handshake’ non-genuine redundancy payment severance pay a gratuity in lieu of notice for unused sick leave for unused rostered days off.   Preservation age or over  Up to the relevant cap amount 17%  Smallest of ETP cap and whole-of-income cap     Life benefit ETP – taxable component payment is because is: a ‘golden handshake’ non-genuine redundancy payment severance pay a gratuity in lieu of notice for unused sick leave for unused rostered days off. All ages  Amount above the relevant cap amount  47%  Smallest of ETP cap and whole-of-income cap  Death benefit ETP paid to non-dependants – taxable component All ages Up to the ETP cap amount 32% ETP cap Death benefit ETP paid to non-dependants – taxable component All ages Amount above the ETP cap amount 47% ETP cap Death benefit ETP paid to dependants – taxable component All ages Up to the ETP cap amount Nil ETP cap Death benefit ETP paid to dependants – taxable component All ages Amount above the ETP cap amount 47% ETP cap Death benefit ETP paid to a trustee of a deceased estate – – Nil – Additional information The ETP cap amount for the 2026–27 income year is $270,000. The amount is indexed annually. The whole-of-income cap amount for the 2026–27 income year and future years is $180,000. This amount is not indexed. A death benefit dependant for taxation purposes includes a: spouse of the deceased child of the deceased under 18 years old person who had an interdependency relationship with the deceased person who was a dependant of the deceased just before the latter died. A spouse of the deceased includes another person who: was in a relationship with the deceased as registered under a prescribed state or territory law lived with the deceased on a genuine domestic basis in a relationship as a couple, although not legally married. A child of the deceased includes: an adopted child, stepchild or ex-nuptial child a child of the deceased’s spouse a child of the deceased within the meaning of the Family Law Act 1975 (for example, a child who is considered to be a child of a person under a state or territory court order giving effect to a surrogacy agreement). An interdependency relationship includes: a close personal relationship between 2 people who live together, where one or both provides for the financial and domestic support and personal care of the other a close personal relationship between 2 people who live together but do not satisfy one or more of the requirements mentioned in the previous dot point due to either or both of them suffering from a physical, intellectual or psychiatric disability. For further information on interdependency relationships and before accepting that a person is financially dependent, refer to interdependency relationship . If an ETP will be paid to the trustee of a deceased estate , no amount should be withheld. Rounding of withholding amounts Withholding amounts calculated by applying this schedule are rounded to the nearest dollar. Results ending in 50 cents are rounded up to the next dollar. If a TFN is not provided, ignore cents when calculating withholding amounts. Delayed termination payments Generally, a payment must be made within 12 months of termination to qualify as an ETP. A payment made after 12 months is a delayed termination payment, unless we have given approval for the payment to be treated as an ETP. If your employee has given you their TFN, withhold an amount equal to 32% from the delayed termination payment. Withholding amounts are rounded to the nearest dollar once calculated. Results ending in 50 cents are rounded up to the next dollar. If your employee has not given you a TFN, you must withhold 47% from the delayed termination payment you make to a resident employee and 45% from a foreign resident employee. Ignore any cents in the result. A delayed termination payment is not treated as an ETP. It must be reported in either: 'Gross payments' in Single Touch Payroll (STP) PAYG payment summary – individual non-business for payers who are exempt or who have a deferral from reporting through STP, as part of 'Gross payments'. Note: Any amount of a genuine redundancy payment in excess of the tax-free amount will be taxable as an employment termination payment. This is so even where the amount is received more than 12 months after the termination. Preservation age The withholding requirements vary depending on whether the employee has reached their preservation age by the end of the income year in which the payment is made. Preservation age is determined using your employee’s date of birth. For example, if your employee was born on 1 October 1964, they reach their preservation age of 60 on 1 October 2024. The table below outlines the transitional period where the preservation age increased progressively from 55 to 60. As the transitional period has been completed, for the 2024-25 and future income years the preservation age is 60 for all employees born after 30 June 1964. For those employees born before that date, they have already reached their preservation age. Preservation age Date of birth Preservation age Before 1/7/1960 55 1/7/1960–30/6/1961 56 1/7/1961–30/6/1962 57 1/7/1962–30/6/1963 58 1/7/1963–30/6/1964 59 After 30/6/1964 60 ETP reporting You must report the ETP in the pay event when using Single Touch Payroll (STP). If you are exempt or have a deferral from reporting using STP, you will need to provide your employee with one or more PAYG payment summary – employment termination payment within 14 days of making the ETP. An ETP code is used to describe the type of payment made, the reasons for it, and whether they relate to a previous income year. The tables below list each ETP code. The ETP code determines which cap, ETP cap or whole-of-income cap is applied. Life benefit ETP Code Description R ETP because of: early retirement scheme genuine redundancy invalidity compensation for personal injury unfair dismissal harassment discrimination.   O Other ETP not described by R , for example, golden handshake, gratuity, payment in lieu of notice, payment for unused sick leave, payment for unused rostered days off. Multiple payments for same termination Code Description S This is a code R payment. You made one of the following payments to your employee in a previous income year for the same termination : a code R payment a code O payment a transitional termination payment .   P This is a code O payment and you made one of the following payments to your employee in a previous income year for the same termination : a code R payment a code O payment a transitional termination payment .   Death benefit ETP Code Description D Death benefit ETP paid to a dependant of the deceased. B Death benefit ETP paid to a non-dependant of the deceased. You made a termination payment to the non-dependant in a previous income year for the same termination . N Death benefit ETP paid to a non-dependant of the deceased. T Death benefit ETP paid to a trustee of the deceased estate. For more information on taxation of termination payments and reporting of ETPs, refer to: Taxation of termination payments – for information about transitional ETPs. Employment termination payments for employees – information for employees on why they may receive an ETP, how it is taxed, and which amounts to report. PAYG withholding for external administrators and trustees of bankrupt estates – includes withholding rates for ETPs. Tax tables – for information on other tax tables that may apply to termination payments. For example, Schedule 7 – Tax table for unused leave payments on termination of employment. Single Touch Payroll Phase 2 employer reporting guidelines – for information about how to report ETPs in STP Phase 2. PAYG payment summaries: forms and guidelines – for employers who are exempt or have a deferral from reporting under STP. QC 107129 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).