Schedule 1 – Statement of formulas for calculating amounts to be withheld | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Schedule 1 – Statement of formulas for calculating amounts to be withheld Calculate the tax to withhold from weekly, fortnightly, monthly or quarterly payments. Published 17 June 2026 Print or Download About this schedule Amounts to be withheld from payments made weekly, fortnightly, monthly and quarterly. Coefficients to use in formulas for withholding from weekly payments What numbers to use in formulas when calculating withholding amounts. Using a formula How to apply the formulas for working out amounts to be withheld. Working out the weekly earnings Applying the formulas to work out the weekly earnings. Medicare levy adjustment Using the formulas when Medicare levy adjustments apply. Examples of calculating the withholding amounts Examples of how to calculate the withholding amounts. Calculating withholding for daily or casual payments How to calculate withholding amounts for payments made on a daily or casual basis. Sample data Sample data for amounts to be withheld. Payee declarations Withholding according to payee declarations. Allowances, leave and other payments Withholding for allowances, leave and other payments. QC 107116 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).