Schedule 2 – Tax table for individuals working in the horticultural or shearing industry | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Schedule 2 – Tax table for individuals working in the horticultural or shearing industry Work out the tax to withhold from payments made to workers in the horticultural or shearing industry. Published 17 June 2026 Print or Download Using this schedule This schedule is for payments made from 1 July 2026. This withholding schedule is made by the Commissioner of Taxation in accordance with sections 15-25 and 15-30 of Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (TAA). It applies to withholding payments covered by section 12-35 of Schedule 1 to the TAA. Use this schedule if you make payments to individuals in the horticultural industry who: work in any process associated with the production, cultivation or harvest of a horticultural crop perform the process on the grower’s property do not work for the same grower for a continuous period exceeding 6 months have given you a valid Tax file number declaration and have claimed the tax-free threshold. This schedule is also used if you make payments to individuals in the shearing industry who: work as shearers, crutchers, wool classers, cooks, shed hands and pressers don't work for the same woolgrower for a continuous period exceeding 6 months have given you a valid Tax file number declaration (NAT 3092) and have claimed the tax-free threshold For all other circumstances, use the relevant PAYG withholding weekly or fortnightly tax table. You can also: use the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file to quickly work out the amount to withhold. download a printable version of Schedule 2 – Tax table for individuals working in the horticultural or shearing industry (NAT 1013, PDF 511KB) This link will download a file . For individuals working under a working holiday makers visa, you must use Schedule 15 – Tax table for working holiday makers . For individuals working under a Seasonal Worker Programme, Pacific Labour Scheme or Pacific Australia Labour Mobility (PALM) scheme, this schedule does not apply. Go to: Seasonal Worker Programme and Pacific Labour Scheme for withholding rates for individuals working under those schemes Employers of PALM scheme workers  for withholding rates for individuals working in that program. Working out the withholding amount To work out the amount you need to withhold you must: Input your worker's total earnings (ignoring any cents) into the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file . Use the appropriate column to find the correct amount to withhold column 2 if the resident worker has given you a TFN column 3 if the resident worker has not given you a TFN column 4 if the foreign resident worker has given you a TFN column 5 if the foreign resident worker has not given you a TFN. When using this schedule do not: withhold an amount for study and training support loans adjust the withholding amount for a worker who is claiming a Medicare levy exemption or reduction, or a tax offset. These adjustments do not apply to this schedule. Example: working out the withholding amount A worker has earnings of $231.50. To work out the correct amount to withhold, ignore cents, input $231 into the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file . If the worker is a: resident and has given you a TFN, use column 2 to find the correct amount to withhold ($30) resident and has not given you a TFN, use column 3 to find the correct amount to withhold ($108) foreign resident and has given you a TFN, use column 4 to find the correct amount to withhold ($69) foreign resident and has not given you a TFN, use column 5 to find the correct amount to withhold ($103). End of example Resident workers The standard rate of withholding of 13% applies if a worker has given you a valid TFN and you withhold amounts using the figures shown in column 2 of the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file . If the worker has not given you a valid TFN, you must withhold amounts using the figures shown in column 3 of the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file . When your worker is a foreign resident If your worker has answered that they are a foreign resident for tax purposes on their Tax file number declaration, you will need to use the foreign resident tax rates. There are 2 ways you can withhold from a foreign resident’s earnings: If they have given you a valid TFN, you must withhold amounts using the figures shown in column 4 of the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file . If they have not given you a valid TFN, you must withhold at 45% using the figures in column 5 of the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file . Pay period The withholding rates in this schedule apply irrespective of the pay period. Using a formula The withholding amounts shown in this schedule can be expressed in mathematical form. If you have developed your own payroll or accounting software package, use the formulas and coefficients outlined below. The formulas comprise linear equations of the form y = ax , where: y is the amount to be withheld expressed in dollars x is earnings for the pay period, ignoring any cents a is the value of the coefficient as shown in Table A. Table A: Withholding rates Has the worker provided their TFN? Resident (a) Foreign resident (a) TFN provided 0.13 0.30 TFN not provided 0.47 0.45 Rounding of withholding amounts The withholding amounts calculated as a result of applying the formulas should be rounded to the nearest dollar. Results ending in 50 cents are rounded to the next dollar. Do this rounding directly – that is, do not make a preliminary rounding to the nearest cent. Where a worker has not provided a TFN, ignore any cents in the result. Software Payroll or accounting software written in accordance with the formulas in this schedule should be tested for accuracy against the Withholding lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file . The results obtained when using the coefficients in this schedule may differ slightly from the Withholding lookup tool . The differences result from the rounding of components. Withholding calculated using either method is accepted. Tax file number (TFN) declarations The answers your workers provide on their Tax file number declaration help determine the amount you need to withhold from their payments. A Tax file number declaration applies to any payments made after you receive the declaration. If you receive an updated declaration from a worker, it will override the previous one. If a worker does not give you a valid Tax file number declaration within 14 days of starting a working relationship with you, you must tell us by: providing employment and tax information about your payee in your STP Phase 2 reporting and including the applicable tax treatment code beginning in ‘N’, or completing a  Tax file number declaration  form with all available details of the payee and sending it to us. When a TFN has not been provided You must withhold 47% from any payment you make to a resident worker and 45% from a foreign resident worker (ignoring any cents), if all the following apply: they have not quoted their TFN they have not claimed an exemption from quoting their TFN they have not advised you that they have applied for a TFN or have made an enquiry with us. If a worker states at question 1 of the Tax file number declaration that they have lodged a Tax file number – application or enquiry for individuals with us, they have 28 days to provide you with their TFN. If a worker has not given you their TFN within 28 days, you must withhold 47% from any payment you make to a resident worker and 45% from a foreign resident worker (ignoring any cents) unless we tell you not to. Do not allow for any tax offsets or Medicare levy adjustment. Do not withhold any amount for study and training support loans. Varying PAYG withholding If your worker believes that, for their circumstances, the amount you withhold will be too much, they may apply to us for a variation to reduce the amount of withholding. For more information your worker can, refer to Varying your PAYG withholding . PAYG withholding publications For PAYG withholding tax tables and other PAYG withholding publications, see: Tax tables PAYG withholding . QC 107120 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).