Study and training support loans monthly tax table | Australian Taxation Office ATO Community Legal Database What's New Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Search Log in to online services Log in Log in to ATO online services Access secure services, view your details and lodge online. Menu Search Study and training support loans monthly tax table Withholding tax table for monthly payments to a payee who has a study and training support loan debt. Published 17 June 2026 Print or Download Using this tax table This tax table is for payments made from 1 July 2026. Use this tax table if you make monthly payments and your payee has: given you a Tax file number declaration or Withholding declaration answered yes to the question on whether they have a Higher Education Loan Program (HELP) debt VET Student Loan (VSL) debt Financial Supplement (FS) debt Student Start-up Loan (SSL) debt (includes ABSTUDY SSL debts) Australian Apprenticeship Support Loan (AASL) debt monthly income of $5,793.67 or more if they have claimed the tax-free threshold monthly income of $4,277.00 or more if they have not claimed the tax-free threshold not completed a Medicare levy variation declaration claiming a reduction or exemption in the Medicare levy for having a spouse or dependants and low family income. You must withhold the study and training support loans component from all your payee's earnings, including taxable allowances, bonuses and commissions. Do not withhold any amount for study and training support loans from lump sum termination payments. You can also: use the Study and training support loans component lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file to quickly work out the monthly PAYG withholding component download and print the Study and training support loans monthly tax table (NAT 2186, PDF 953KB) This link will download a file . Working out the withholding amount To work out the amount you need to withhold: Use the Monthly tax table  to calculate the monthly withholding amount for your payee's earnings, allowing for any tax offsets claimed. Use this study and training support loans monthly tax table to calculate the study and training support loans component to withhold. Add the study and training support loans component to the withholding amount. Withhold this amount from your payee's earnings. Finding the study and training support loans monthly component Input your payee's monthly earnings (including cents) into the green cell in column 1 Monthly earnings in the Study and training support loans component lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file . Then use the appropriate column to find the study and training support loans component: use column 2 if your payee is either claiming the tax-free threshold or a foreign resident use column 3 if your payee is not claiming the tax-free threshold. Example: using the lookup tool A payee has claimed the tax-free threshold and has monthly earnings of $5,915.47. Input $5,915.47 into column 1 in the Study and training support loans component lookup tool (XLSX, 25KB) This link will download a file This link will download a file . The study and training support loan's monthly component in column 2 is $17.00. End of example Using a formula The withholding amounts shown in this tax table can be expressed in a mathematical form. If you have developed your own payroll or accounting software package use Schedule 8 – Statement of formulas for calculating study and training support loans components . PAYG withholding publications You can access all PAYG withholding tax tables and other PAYG withholding publications at: Tax tables PAYG withholding QC 107140 Print or Download Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tools Media centre Forms and instructions Tax rates and codes Calculators and tools Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Tax information for People with disability Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples Norfolk Island Other languages Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters Help and support Top call centre questions Contact us Identity security and scams Financial difficulties and disasters About ATO Careers Privacy policy ATOtv Other languages facebook Opens in a new window Linkedin Opens in a new window Instagram Opens in a new window We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present. © Commonwealth of Australia  |  View related websites Our commitment to you We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations. If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take. Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information. If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice. Copyright notice © Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).